GOOD EVENING AND WELCOME TO THE
AUGUST 7TH MEETING OF THE
UNIVERSITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU ARE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE TO THE PUBLIC ON
THIS SOLEMN
WILL THE CLERK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH COUNCILOR
HARRISON KAZMIR SONG HERE COMES
OUR WATSON HERE COMES MY
RENDINA HERE KAZMIR GARTSIDE
ONE HERE MAYOR TAYLOR APSA
CUSTOMER IRE HERE BECAUSE HERE
THAT'S WHERE BRIGGS HERE KAZMIR
CORNELL APSA WE HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU MA'AM PLEASE HAVE A
MOTION THE AGENDA BY COUNCILMAN
ARONSOHN SEGMENT BY COUNCIL
MEMBER EDWIN ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA?
IT IS WORTH NOTING THAT ON THE
ONLINE VERSION THERE WAS A
PRESENTATION THAT IS ACTUALLY
IT WAS STATED INCORRECTLY THAT
IT WILL BE ON THE NEXT
MEETING'S AGENDA.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION, ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE ANY COMMUNICATIONS
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR?
NO MAYOR, THANK YOU.
THIS EVENING WE ARE HONORED TO
BE JOINED BY THE CHAIR OF OUR
INDEPENDENT POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION FOR A MONTHLY UPDATE
TO COUNCIL CHAIR CARTER.
IF YOU ARE HERE YOU HAVE THE
FLOOR
THE CHAIR OF THE
INDEPENDENT POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION WILL BE JOINING US
ON ZOOME THAT EVENING.
THANK YOU.
I AM OUT OF TOWN TODAY AND I
APPRECIATE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL ON ZOOME FIRST
I WANT TO REPORT THAT AS SOME
OF YOU PROBABLY KNOW WE HAVE
BEEN SHORT ON COMMISSIONERS
BECAUSE OF RESIGNATIONS IN
TERMS ENDING AND WE HAVE FOUR
NEW APPLICANTS ONE THAT COUNCIL
HAS ALREADY APPROVED AND THREE
OTHERS THAT WE HAVE INTERVIEWED
AND WE ARE SENDING THEIR
APPLICATIONS TO COUNCIL AND WE
CERTAINLY HOPE TO BE WELL UP TO
SPEED BY THE FALL.
AS YOU KNOW, WE HAVE NOT HAD
MEETINGS IN JULY OR AUGUST AND
SO WE'RE WE'RE GEARING BACK UP
.
WE HAVE HOWEVER CONTINUED TO
HAVE OUR COMPLAINT REVIEW
PROCESS OVER THE SUMMER AND WE
ARE READY FOR THE FALL IN
ADDITION TO THE COMPLETE
REVIEW, WE PLAN TO HAVE A VERY
ACTIVE COMMITTEES WITH
REVIEWING OF POLICE POLICIES
AND PROCEDURES AND IF WE HAVE
SOME SUGGESTIONS FOR CHANGES WE
WILL BE COMING FORWARD WITH
THEM.
WE ALSO SETTING UP A NEW COMMIT
A COMMITTEE SUBCOMMITTEE THAT
WILL BE REVIEWING POLICE
TRAINING AND WE HAVE SOME
SUGGESTIONS FOR ADDITIONAL OR
DIFFERENT TRAINING IN THAT
AREA.
ALSO I THOUGHT IT WAS
INTERESTING TODAY IN THE ANN
ARBOR NEWS WE SEE THAT THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT IS COMING UP
WITH AN A.I. PROCEDURE TO
REVIEW POLICE BODY WORN CAMERAS
AND SO WE DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT
THAT UNTIL IT CAME UP IN
ANN
ARBOR NEWS TODAY.
AND SO WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO
GETTING WITH INTERIM CHIEF
METZKER AND SEEING HOW THIS NEW
AI I THINK AS I UNDERSTAND IT
IT'S CALLED TRULY AND WE'RE
INTERESTED IN HOW THAT'S GOING
TO AFFECT OUR OVERSIGHT
FUNCTION.
SO WE WILL BE GETTING INTO THAT
.
FINALLY, I DO WANT TO ANNOUNCE
I'VE SPOKEN A COUPLE OF TIMES
ABOUT OUR PUBLIC FORUM THAT'S
SCHEDULED FOR SEPTEMBER AND WE
WILL HAVE DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
TRAFFIC STOP REPORT AS WELL AS
THE DRIVING EQUALITY ORDINANCE
AND WE ARE INVITING THE PUBLIC
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THE RESPONSE
WILL BE BUT AS YOU KNOW OF ALL
THE CITY COMMISSIONS, WE ARE
THE ONLY COMMISSION WITH THE
WORD COMMUNITY IN OUR NAME AND
SO WE'RE INVITING THE COMMUNITY
OUT.
WE HOPE TO HAVE MEMBERS
OF COUNCIL MEMBERS OF THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT AND OTHERS TO
COME OUT OF THAT FORUM IS GOING
TO BE SEPTEMBER TWENTY SEVENTH.
NOW OUR NORMAL MEETING IS ON
THE LAST TUESDAY OF THE MONTH
BUT BECAUSE OF THE WHERE WE
WANTED TO HAVE THIS MEETING IN
THE COMMUNITY WE ARE MOVING IT
FROM THE TUESDAY TO THE LAST
WEDNESDAY WHICH WILL BE THE
TWENTY SEVENTH OF SEPTEMBER
WEDNESDAY THE TWENTY SEVEN AND
THAT WILL BE AT THE PEACE
NEIGHBORHOOD FACILITY ON MAPLE
ROAD.
SO AGAIN WE ARE INVITING THE
PUBLIC THEY WILL WILL BE
SENDING OUT EMAILS TO VARIOUS
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS AND WE
CERTAINLY INVITE COUNCIL AND
THE PUBLIC TO COME.
WE'RE ALSO LOOKING FORWARD TO
MEETING THE POLICE CHIEF
FINALISTS IN THAT STUDY.
SO THAT IS PRETTY MUCH WHERE WE
ARE AGAIN, I APPRECIATE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL
THIS EVENING.
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS I'M
HAPPY TO RESPOND OTHERWISE
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
SHARECARE WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC
COMMENT PUBLIC COMMENT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL
AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK AT
PUBLIC COMMENT ONE MUST HAVE
SIGNED UP ADVANCED BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS COUNCIL AND
ONLY ONE PERSON MAY SPEAK AT A
TIME FOR THOSE PARTICIPATING ON
ZOOME THE CITY CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN YOU HAVE THIRTY
SECONDS REMAINING WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND YIELD
THE FLOOR.
COUNCIL RULES ALSO ALLOW FOR
FORTY FIVE MINUTES OF PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVED TIME AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE MEETING WE
ALLOW FOR FIFTEEN SPEAKERS IN
THE INITIAL FORTY FIVE MINUTE
TIME PERIOD IF AT THE
CONCLUSION OF FORTY FIVE
MINUTES SPEAKERS REMAIN ON THE
PUBLIC COMMENT LIST WILL REOPEN
PUBLIC COMMENT FOR THOSE
SPEAKERS AT THE END OF THE
MEETING.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TONIGHT IS
BRENDON DéMARCHES BRANDON DEM
JEFF GO AHEAD.
HI.
HELLO CITY COUNCIL MY NAME IS
BRANDON CHARLES FROM WEST
LEVITTOWN FORT WORTH LESS THAN
HALF A MILE FROM THE PROPOSED
ZONING OR C ONE AND I'M CALLING
IN TODAY TO SUPPORT C ONE AND
SAY HOW EXCITED I AM TO SEE
MASS TIMBER PROJECT PROPOSED IN
AN IRA AND SO I HOPE YOU
APPROVE THIS FIRST FIRST
READING OF OBVIOUSLY ONE
TONIGHT TO SEE WHEN THEY ARE
ZONING SEEMS ENTIRELY
APPROPRIATE FOR THIS AREA.
IT'S RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET
FROM THE ATHLETIC CAMPUS NEAR A
BUNCH OF OTHER STUDENT HOUSING
AND SOFT SAND HERE WILL PROVIDE
MUCH NEEDED HOUSING WHILE BEING
LESS CARBON THAN MOST OF OUR
OTHER STRUCTURES IN THE CITY
RECYCLING ALSO PROVIDES A FREE
PUBLIC PLAZA THAT'S ABOUT THE
SIZE OF THE LIBRARY LANE
SURFACE PARKING LOT AND IT
PROVIDES A NO EXPENSE THE CITY
.
SO PLEASE SUPPORT C ONE ALSO.
WELL I CAN'T SPEAK THE DETAILS
OF C THREE AND GENERALLY
SUPPORTIVE OF REGULATIONS THAT
ALLOW PEOPLE TO MAKE INFORMED
DECISIONS.
I HAPPEN TO LOOK AT MY
PURCHASING A RELATIVELY WELL
INSULATED HOUSE THAT IS
INCREDIBLY EXPENSIVE AND
WASTEFUL TO HEAT AND COOL BUT
MUCH OF OUR HOUSING STOCK IS
OLDER AND POORLY INSULATED
PURCHASER MAY NOT KNOW THEY'RE
IN FOR THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS
OF INSTALLATION WORK OR
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS OF EXTRA
ENERGY BILLS.
IT SEEMS PERFECTLY REASONABLE
TO REQUIRE DISCLOSURES ON
ENERGY CONSUMPTION DURING A
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION SO THAT
NEW HOME BUYERS KNOW WHAT TO
EXPECT AND ALSO TO ENCOURAGE
SELLERS TO MAKE AND THEN THE
EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS PRIOR
TO SALE.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK.
>> HAVE A GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE EDWARDSVILLE
METI
HELLO MY NAME IS GOMORY.
I LIVE IN LOWER BURNS PARK
LAVERNE'S PARK CLOSE TO STADIUM
BOULEVARD THE THE THE EAST PART
OF STADIUM BOULEVARD BUT THAT'S
HANDY COMMUTE TO THE WEST PART
OF STADIUM BOULEVARD WHICH IS
PART OF THE PROPOSED TSAY
ZONING RTC ONE ZONING AND I'M
GOING TO SPEAK TO THIS ONE IN
OPPOSITION TO TWO OF THE
CHANGES THAT HAVE BEEN PROPOSED
TO MAKE IT EASIER FOR CAR
DEALERSHIPS AND CAR RENTAL
AGENCIES TO SET UP SHOP CAR
AGENCIES ARE DENSELY CAR
DEALERSHIPS AND CAR RENTAL
CENTRIC BUSINESSES.
AGENCIES ARE DENSELY CAR
THEY'RE BUSINESSES THAT EXIST
CENTRIC BUSINESSES.
BECAUSE OF THE CAR IN ORDER TO
THEY'RE BUSINESSES THAT EXIST
GET YOU TO DRIVE A CAR AND ARE
BECAUSE OF THE CAR IN ORDER TO
COMPLETELY CAR CAR BRAND THE
GET YOU TO DRIVE A CAR AND ARE
TYPICAL ADDITIONAL NEW CAR ON
COMPLETELY CAR CAR BRAND THE
THE ROAD WILL RACK UP THOUSANDS
TYPICAL ADDITIONAL NEW CAR ON
IF NOT TENS OF THOUSANDS
THE ROAD WILL RACK UP THOUSANDS
OF MILES HAVING ANY KIND
IF NOT TENS OF THOUSANDS
OF IMPACT IMPROVEMENT TO THE
OF MILES HAVING ANY KIND
ABILITY FOR BUSINESSES IN THE
OF IMPACT IMPROVEMENT TO THE
CITY TO SELL AND RENT CARS IS
ABILITY FOR BUSINESSES IN THE
AT ODDS WITH OUR STATED GOALS.
CITY TO SELL AND RENT CARS IS
IT'S AT ODDS WITH OUR GOALS TO
AT ODDS WITH OUR STATED GOALS.
REDUCE VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED
IT'S AT ODDS WITH OUR GOALS TO
BECAUSE WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH
REDUCE VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED
THE CAR YOU CAN TRAVEL SOME
BECAUSE WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH
VEHICLE MILES.
THE CAR YOU CAN TRAVEL SOME
IT'S AT ODDS WITH OUR COMPLETE
VEHICLE MILES.
STREETS BECAUSE THESE
IT'S AT ODDS WITH OUR COMPLETE
BUSINESSES VERY CAR DENSE, CAR
STREETS BECAUSE THESE
DENSE USES AND IT'S AT ODDS
BUSINESSES VERY CAR DENSE, CAR
WITH PEDESTRIAN BICYCLE SAFETY
DENSE USES AND IT'S AT ODDS
BECAUSE THE SORTS OF ROADS THAT
WITH PEDESTRIAN BICYCLE SAFETY
YOU GET WHEN YOU HAVE LOTS
BECAUSE THE SORTS OF ROADS THAT
OF CAR DEALERSHIPS ARE ROADS
YOU GET WHEN YOU HAVE LOTS
EFFECTIVELY KNOWN ROADS OR
OF CAR DEALERSHIPS ARE ROADS
STREET ROADS AND SOME PEOPLE
EFFECTIVELY KNOWN ROADS OR
HAVE WITTILY REFERRED THEM AS
STREET ROADS AND SOME PEOPLE
CAR SEWERS BECAUSE THEY'RE WIDE
HAVE WITTILY REFERRED THEM AS
AND THEY'RE DEEP AND THEY'RE
CAR SEWERS BECAUSE THEY'RE WIDE
NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE TO CROSS ON
AND THEY'RE DEEP AND THEY'RE
FOOT OR ON BICYCLE.
NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE TO CROSS ON
THEY'RE DANGEROUS AND AND
FOOT OR ON BICYCLE.
THINGS THAT WE CAN DO TO REDUCE
THEY'RE DANGEROUS AND AND
VEHICLE INTENSITY OF OUR CITY
THINGS THAT WE CAN DO TO REDUCE
ARE ALL GOOD.
VEHICLE INTENSITY OF OUR CITY
SO I'M OPPOSED TO THE PROPOSED
ARE ALL GOOD.
CHANGES TO ONE THAT WOULD ALLOW
SO I'M OPPOSED TO THE PROPOSED
CAR DEALERSHIPS, CAR RENTAL
CHANGES TO ONE THAT WOULD ALLOW
AGENCIES AS EVEN TO HAVE EVEN
CAR DEALERSHIPS, CAR RENTAL
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES.
AGENCIES AS EVEN TO HAVE EVEN
I DON'T SEE ANY PARTICULAR
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES.
REASON WE SHOULD YIELD AN INCH
I DON'T SEE ANY PARTICULAR
TO THOSE.
REASON WE SHOULD YIELD AN INCH
I KNOW THAT THE MEMBERS
TO THOSE.
OF COUNCIL HAVE SAID NICE
I KNOW THAT THE MEMBERS
THINGS ABOUT THE CAR REPAIR
OF COUNCIL HAVE SAID NICE
FACILITIES IN THE AREA.
THINGS ABOUT THE CAR REPAIR
I CAN ALSO SAY NICE THINGS
FACILITIES IN THE AREA.
ABOUT THE FELLOWS WHO FIX OUR
I CAN ALSO SAY NICE THINGS
CARS BUT THE DEALERSHIPS AND
ABOUT THE FELLOWS WHO FIX OUR
RENTAL AGENCIES DON'T SEE ANY
CARS BUT THE DEALERSHIPS AND
PARTICULAR REASON TO TO YIELD
RENTAL AGENCIES DON'T SEE ANY
AN INCH TO THOSE INTERESTS.
PARTICULAR REASON TO TO YIELD
THANK YOU.
AN INCH TO THOSE INTERESTS.
NEXT UP WE HAVE KATHY GRISWOLD
THANK YOU.
STUFF.
NEXT UP WE HAVE KATHY GRISWOLD
I'D LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE FOR
STUFF.
SERVING HERE.
I'D LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE FOR
I WILL BE TALKING TONIGHT ABOUT
SERVING HERE.
TWO ITEMS ON THE CONSENT AGENDA
I WILL BE TALKING TONIGHT ABOUT
AGENDA THAT TOTAL TO ABOUT A
TWO ITEMS ON THE CONSENT AGENDA
MILLION DOLLARS THAT ARE
AGENDA THAT TOTAL TO ABOUT A
BASICALLY FOR THE PUBLIC RIGHT
MILLION DOLLARS THAT ARE
OF WAY FOR PEDESTRIAN SAFETY.
BASICALLY FOR THE PUBLIC RIGHT
BUT WHAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT
OF WAY FOR PEDESTRIAN SAFETY.
THERE'S A COMPLETE LACK OF ANY
BUT WHAT I WANT TO SAY IS THAT
FEEDBACK OR FOCUS ON OPERATIONS
THERE'S A COMPLETE LACK OF ANY
WITHIN A PEDESTRIAN SAFETY AREA
FEEDBACK OR FOCUS ON OPERATIONS
AND AS A COUNCIL MEMBER I WAS
WITHIN A PEDESTRIAN SAFETY AREA
FREQUENTLY ACCUSED OF BEING
AND AS A COUNCIL MEMBER I WAS
NEGATIVE TO STAFF OR NEGATIVE
FREQUENTLY ACCUSED OF BEING
TO MY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
NEGATIVE TO STAFF OR NEGATIVE
I'VE GIVEN THIS A LOT
TO MY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
OF THOUGHT.
I'VE GIVEN THIS A LOT
THE PROBLEM IS THAT WE HAVE A
OF THOUGHT.
LOCAL POLITICAL MACHINE THAT IS
THE PROBLEM IS THAT WE HAVE A
FOCUSED MORE SHINY NEW THINGS
LOCAL POLITICAL MACHINE THAT IS
STAFF REALIZES THAT THEY WILL
FOCUSED MORE SHINY NEW THINGS
BE ROADKILL IF THEY DON'T GO
STAFF REALIZES THAT THEY WILL
ALONG WITH THIS AMORPHOUS
BE ROADKILL IF THEY DON'T GO
POLITICAL MACHINE IN OUR
ALONG WITH THIS AMORPHOUS
COMMUNITY.
POLITICAL MACHINE IN OUR
THAT SAID, THE CITY IS RELIABLE
COMMUNITY.
SO THE POLITICAL MACHINE CAN GO
THAT SAID, THE CITY IS RELIABLE
OVER THERE AND DO WHATEVER THEY
SO THE POLITICAL MACHINE CAN GO
WANT BUT THE CITY IS LIABLE IF
OVER THERE AND DO WHATEVER THEY
WE HAVE DANGEROUS SITUATIONS IN
WANT BUT THE CITY IS LIABLE IF
OUR COMMUNITY THAT ARE NOT
WE HAVE DANGEROUS SITUATIONS IN
BEING ADDRESSED BY THE CITY
OUR COMMUNITY THAT ARE NOT
SITUATES THAT HAVE BEEN
BEING ADDRESSED BY THE CITY
IDENTIFIED IN WRITING TIME
SITUATES THAT HAVE BEEN
AFTER TIME AND INCLUDES A
IDENTIFIED IN WRITING TIME
LETTER WHERE THE CITY COMMITTED
AFTER TIME AND INCLUDES A
TO TAKING ACTIONS BACK IN
LETTER WHERE THE CITY COMMITTED
NINETEEN NINETY EIGHT TO KEEP
TO TAKING ACTIONS BACK IN
THE VEGETATION CLEARED FROM THE
NINETEEN NINETY EIGHT TO KEEP
RIGHT AWAY AND THE KINGS SCHOOL
THE VEGETATION CLEARED FROM THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS NOT BEING
RIGHT AWAY AND THE KINGS SCHOOL
DONE.
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS NOT BEING
IT IS EXTREMELY DANGEROUS AND
DONE.
NOW WE WILL HAVE MANY VEHICLES
IT IS EXTREMELY DANGEROUS AND
CUTTING THROUGH THEIR BECAUSE
NOW WE WILL HAVE MANY VEHICLES
THEY CANNOT GO SOUTHBOUND ON
CUTTING THROUGH THEIR BECAUSE
ERHART AND THEY WILL BE USING
THEY CANNOT GO SOUTHBOUND ON
THESE NEIGHBORHOOD ROADS TO
ERHART AND THEY WILL BE USING
DROP THEIR KIDS OFF ESPECIALLY
THESE NEIGHBORHOOD ROADS TO
AT ST. PAUL SCHOOL.
DROP THEIR KIDS OFF ESPECIALLY
WE ALSO HAVE ISSUES OF SIGNAGE
AT ST. PAUL SCHOOL.
WHAT I CALL THE A BACKWARDS
WE ALSO HAVE ISSUES OF SIGNAGE
CROSSWALK SIGNS CROSSWALKS,
WHAT I CALL THE A BACKWARDS
SIGNS THAT ARE BACKWARDS.
CROSSWALK SIGNS CROSSWALKS,
THEY'RE STILL BACKWARDS.
SIGNS THAT ARE BACKWARDS.
OPEN THE TICKET.
THEY'RE STILL BACKWARDS.
THE TICKET WAS CLOSED.
OPEN THE TICKET.
STAFF TALKED ABOUT IT.
THE TICKET WAS CLOSED.
IT WASN'T DONE THE HIDE AND
STAFF TALKED ABOUT IT.
SEEK CROSSWALKS WHERE WE HAVE
IT WASN'T DONE THE HIDE AND
VEGETATION SIX FEET TALL AT
SEEK CROSSWALKS WHERE WE HAVE
SCHOOL CROSSWALKS THE PEEKABOO
VEGETATION SIX FEET TALL AT
SIGNAGE WHERE WE HAVE SIGNAGE
SCHOOL CROSSWALKS THE PEEKABOO
THAT IS BEHIND
WELL TODAY
SOMEONE PUT IN A TICKET.
IT'S BEHIND A DETOUR SIGN.
IT'S BEHIND VEGETATION.
IT'S BEHIND WHATEVER.
NO ONE ON STAFF GOES BACK AND
LOOKS AT THAT IT'S TIME THAT WE
NEEDED TO.
AND IN CLOSING I JUST WANT TO
SAY THAT I AND OTHERS ARE
WORKING WITH THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN ON IMPROVEMENTS TO
THE TEN CRASH REPORT.
SO WE CAN MAKE DATA DRIVEN
DECISIONS AND ALSO IN IMPROVING
THE MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE AND
ALSO THANK YOU TO PRESIDENT ONO
FOR HIS WORK ON WORKFORCE
HOUSING THOSE PLANS ARE MOVING
FORWARD.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE TOM RANCOURT.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS TOM INCAT.
I'M THE CEO FOR THE ANNIVERSARY
BOARD OF REALTORS.
WE REPRESENT ELEVEN HUNDRED
REAL ESTATE PROFESSIONALS IN
THE ANN ARBOR AREA ON BEHALF
OF OUR MEMBERSHIP.
I'M HERE TODAY TO SPEAK IN
OPPOSITION TO THE HOME ENERGY
RATING DISCLOSURE ORDINANCE
ALTHOUGH WE APPLAUD THE CITY'S
EFFORTS, THIS ORDINANCE DOES
LITTLE TO HELP THE CITY TO
ACHIEVE THE TWO ZERO GOALS.
IT TARGETS A SMALL GROUP
OF OWNERS SELLING THEIR HOMES
WHICH IS GIVEN BY THE OWNER TO
THE BUYER WHO TYPICALLY DOES
NOT HAVE THE FINANCIAL
RESOURCES TO ACT ON THE
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT ARE
PRESENTED THROUGH THE
ORDINANCE.
WE HAVE WORKED OPENLY WITH THE
CITY STAFF AND THE ENERGY
COMMISSION TO THOROUGHLY
UNDERSTAND THE PROPOSED
ORDINANCE AND ARE AWARE OF THE
CITY'S PLANS TO HIRE ONE HOME
ENERGY ASSESSOR EVEN THOUGH THE
AUDITS DOES NOT INCLUDE THE
COST OF THE ASSESSMENT FOR THE
CITY TO BEAR THIS EXPENSE
KEEPING IN MIND THAT THE CITY
STAFF HAS ALSO POINTED OUT THAT
THEY HAVE MET WITH ADDITIONAL
FIRMS TO HELP WITH ASSESSMENTS.
STAFF IS CLEARLY AWARE THAT ONE
ASSESSOR WILL NOT BE ABLE TO
MEET THE DEMANDS IN A TIMELY
FASHION POTENTIALLY STALLING
HOME SALES AND OR ADDING
ADDITIONAL COST TO THE
TRANSACTION.
IF YOU WOULD PLEASE CONSIDER
OUR RENTAL HOUSING INSPECTION
PROCESS AS A FRAMEWORK FOR
ENERGY ASSESSMENT WITH AS MANY
AS FIVE INSPECTORS ON STAFF IT
CAN TAKE SEVERAL WEEKS AND
SOMETIMES SEVERAL MONTHS TO
HAVE A RENTAL PROPERTY
INSPECTED.
MOST IMPORTANTLY AND AS POINTED
OUT IN OUR AUGUST THIRD LETTER
TO CITY COUNCIL, SELLERS WILL
NOT BE ABLE TO MEET THE
ADVERTISEMENT REQUIREMENTS
OF THE ORDINANCE.
ADDITIONALLY, IT'S CLEAR FROM
THE 30 MONTH REPORT TO THE
PORTLAND CITY COUNCIL THAT MOST
BUYERS ARE NOT IN A FINANCIAL
POSITION TO MAKE THIS KIND
OF IMPROVEMENT NEEDED TO
INCREASE THEIR SCORE
SIGNIFICANTLY IF BY CHANCE THEY
ARE.
REALTORS LOCALLY POINT OUT THAT
BUYERS WILL PRIORITIZE THE NEED
TO IMPROVE THEIR HOME SUCH AS
MAKING UPDATES TO KITCHENS OR
BAS OVER ADDING INSTALLATION TO
THEIR HOMES.
EITHER WAY, AFTER MAKING ONE
OF THE LARGEST INVESTMENTS
OF THEIR LIFETIME, THE FACTS IN
THE PORTLAND STUDY SHOW THAT
NEW BUYERS SIMPLY DO NOT CHOOSE
TO MAKE ENERGY BASED
IMPROVEMENTS TO THEIR HOMES.
LASTLY, LET'S KEEP IN MIND THAT
THIS IS A VERY BASIC CHECKLIST.
IT'S NOT A LOW DOOR TEST.
IT ESTIMATES THE COST TO HEAT
COOL AND LIGHT THE PROPERTY
RATHER THAN AN ESTIMATE.
PLEASE REMEMBER THAT BUYERS CAN
CONTACT DTG AND OBTAIN AND
ACTUAL COST FOR RECENT YEARS
HONORABLE COUNCIL MEMBERS WE
RESPECTFULLY ASK THAT YOU
EMPOWER CITY STAFF TO DESIGN AN
INCENTIVE BASED ENERGY
ASSESSMENT PROGRAM A MODEL THAT
OTHERS WILL FOLLOW A PROGRAM
THAT WILL EMPOWER ALL ANN ARBOR
HOMEOWNERS TO ACTIVELY
PARTICIPATE AND ACHIEVING THE
TWO ZERO GOALS RATHER THAN A
FORCED PROGRAM FOR SELLERS WHO
ONLY FACE PUNISHMENT AFTER
LEAVING OUR GREAT CITY.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
YOUR CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE MONICA SPORTO
BEBO.
GOOD EVENING.
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS AND STAFF.
MY NAME IS MONICA SWARTHOUT
BEBO AND I'M THE ARTISTIC AND
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
CARRIE TOWN CONCERT HOUSE
LOCATED AT FOUR ONE FIVE NORTH
FOURTH AVENUE IN THE TOWN
DISTRICT ALSO PRESENT IS OUR
BOARD PRESIDENT AND OUR
RESIDENT AND REALTOR STEPHANIE
HAYLE.
I'M HERE TO ENCOURAGE YOU TO
VOTE YES IN SUPPORT KOREATOWN
CONCERT HOUSES CLUB LIQUOR
LICENSE APPLICATION WITH THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
TERRYTOWN CONCERT HOUSE IS
PROUD TO BE ENTERING THIRTY
NINTH YEAR AS A NONPROFIT ARTS
VENUE, A CULTURAL GEM IN OUR
COMMUNITY THAT OFFERS A UNIQUE
OPPORTUNITY TO ENJOY
EXCEPTIONAL ARTISTS AND AN
INTIMATE HISTORICAL SETTING
THAT IS UNLIKE ANY OTHER
CONCERT EXPERIENCE IN ANN ARBOR
THIS COMING TWENTY THREE TWENTY
FOURTH SEASON WE HAVE PLANS TO
PRESENT 90 CONCERTS WITH A
CULTURALLY DIVERSE AND ECLECTIC
COMBINATION OF LOCAL, NATIONAL
AND INTERNATIONAL WORLD CLASS
ARTISTS AS THE ARTISTIC AND
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR I BELIEVE
THIS CLUB LICENSE IS
INSTRUMENTAL TO THE FUTURE
GROWTH OF THE ORGANIZATION AND
WILL GREATLY ENHANCE OUR
ABILITY TO SERVE THE COMMUNITY
AND ATTRACT FOLKS TO THE KERRY
TOWN.
MARK FARMERS MARKET IN
KOREATOWN AREA FOR THE PAST FEW
DECADES CCAC HAS ROUTINELY
APPLIED FOR AND USED ALL TWELVE
ALLOWABLE SPECIAL LICENSE FROM
THE STATE EACH YEAR FOR SPECIAL
EVENTS FOUNDERS A CLUB
OF SUPPORTERS WHO GIVE THREE
HUNDRED DOLLARS OR MORE
ANNUALLY HAVE EXPRESSED A
DESIRE TO HAVE MORE THAN 12
OPPORTUNITIES TO ENJOY WINE OR
BEER AKECH IN A GIVEN YEAR
AFTER DECADES OF GOING THROUGH
THE ARDUOUS PROCESS
OF OBTAINING THESE SPECIAL
LICENSE, THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
MOUSSA IT'S A CLUB LIQUOR
LICENSE FOR THE ORGANIZATION AS
IT WOULD ALLOW US TO MORE
EASILY BUILD COMMUNITY AMONG
ITS FOUNDERS CLUB I ROUTINELY
OFFER IN CONCERT AFTER CLUBS
AND OTHER EVENTS ESPECIALLY FOR
THEM SUCH AS ARTISTS MEET AND
GREETS INCLUDING WINE AND BEER
.
IT WILL ALSO HELP US GENERATE
ADDITIONAL REVENUE FOR CASEY
THROUGH INCREASED CONCESSION
SALES AND IT WOULD ALLOW TO
THOUGHTFULLY TARGET CONCERTS
AND SPECIAL EVENTS THAT WOULD
LEND THEMSELVES WELL TO THE
INCLUSION OF ALCOHOL
CONCESSIONS SUCH AS CONCERTS
HELD ON NEW EVE OR VALENTINE'S
DAY.
OUR DANCE HALL NIGHTS SERIES,
OUR WINE WOMEN AND SONG CONCERT
SERIES OR CONCERTS THAT OCCUR
IN CONJUNCTION WITH OTHER AREA
EVENTS SUCH AS KENDEL FEST OR
ANN ARBOR PRIDE.
IT WOULD ALSO OFFER US THE
OPPORTUNITY TO GIVE A SIMILAR
SCENARIO AS HAPPENS AT OTHER
ICONIC VENUES HERE IN ANN ARBOR
SUCH AS THE ARC AND THE
MICHIGAN THEATER.
ON BEHALF OF THE STAFF AND
BOARD OF TRUSTEES, I WANT TO
THANK FOR YOUR FAVORABLE
CONSIDERATION OF OUR
APPLICATION AND ASSURE YOU THAT
WE WILL USE THE LICENSE WITH
APPROPRIATE CARE AND
RESPONSIBILITY.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO YOUR SUPPORT
AND ALSO TO SEEING YOU AT THE
HOUSE FOR A CONCERT SOON.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
THANK.
NEXT UP WE HAVE ALEX LOWE, ALEX
LOWE AND ZOOM.
GO AHEAD.
HI THIS IS ALEX.
HELLO.
I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TO THREE
TOPICS TONIGHT FIRST CAN THEY
PURCHASE A BIT OF NEW WOOD
CHIPPER COMBINED WITH CIELO AND
THE RENTAL OF STREET SWEEPERS
WHILE I'M IN FAVOR OF BOTH
OF THESE AND DON'T BELIEVE THEY
SHOULD BE AT ALL CONTROVERSIAL
,THE FACT THAT AS A CITY WE'RE
WILLING TO PURCHASE OR RENT NEW
FOSSIL FUEL POWERED DEVICES FOR
THESE PURPOSES THEY'D HAVE
SPENT YEARS DELAYING THE
PURCHASE OF SIMILAR EQUIPMENT
SIZED FOR BAEKELAND SHOWS A
SORT OF DOUBLE THING WITH
RESPECT TO OUR ENVIRONMENTAL
GOALS FOR BIKE LANES WE'RE
REDUCING THE EFFECTIVENESS
OF THESE ENERGY SAVING
EMISSIONS, REDUCING BIKE LANES
BY DEMANDING A VERY HIGH BAR
FOR THE MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
THAT WE BUY ABOVE IF WE SIMPLY
ARE NOT APPLYING TO OTHER
PURCHASES BY THE CITY IS
STEADY, I WOULD REASONABLY
EXPECT THAT PURCHASING EVEN A
DIESEL POWERED STREET SWEEPER
FOR THE BIKE LANES THAT WOULD
ALLOW US TO TO MAKE THEM
PROPERLY SEPARATED AND
PROTECTED WOULD HAVE NET
NEGATIVE EMISSIONS DUE TO THE
CAR TRIPS THAT WOULD BE TURNED
INTO BY THE SAME CANNOT BE SAID
FOR EITHER OF THE OR THE ITEMS
ON THESE ORDERS TONIGHT IF WE
TRULY WANT TO MEET OUR H0
GOALS, WE SHOULD BE WILLING TO
DO THE POTENTIALLY UNPALATABLE
BUT STILL VERY EFFECTIVE THINGS
TO HELP ACHIEVE THESE GOALS,
ESPECIALLY IF WE'RE ABLE TO IF
WE'RE WILLING AND ABLE TO DO
THOSE SAME UNPALATABLE THINGS
FOR ACKLES UNRELATED TO H0.
SECOND, I'D LIKE TO SPEAK ON
THE GC ONE AMENDMENT TOO.
I'M DEEPLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
ADDITION OF AUTOMOBILE RELATED
USES EVEN WITH A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION EXCEPT AS PRIMARY
USERS THERE'S NO INDICATION
THAT THESE EXCEPTIONS WILL BE
WITHIN THE SPIRIT OF GC ONE AND
THE ADDITION OF AUTOMOBILE
RELATED USES AS A VALID PRIMARY
USE OF STRONG RISK OF ENTIRELY
DEFEATING THE PURPOSE OF OF THE
T1 DISTRICT.
PLEASE RECONSIDER THIS.
FINALLY, I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
THAT THE CITY TAKE A BIKE LANE
GAF DASHBOARD SIMILAR TO THE
VERY USEFUL SIDEWALK APP
DASHBOARD WE HAVE THE DASHBOARD
SHOULD NOT SIMPLY BE BY PLANE
OR BY A PLANE BUT RATHER
INCLUDE A LEVEL OF OBSERVER 30
SECONDS AND ABILITIES.
NO BIKE LANE IS OBVIOUSLY A GAP
BUT PAINTED BICYCLE GUTTERS OR
EVEN BUFFERED BIKE LANES THAT
HAVE A HOLE TWO STRIPS OF PAINT
A CAR WOULD HAVE TO CROSS A
KILLER BICYCLIST ARE WOEFULLY
INSUFFICIENT.
WE NEED SAFE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
COUNCIL SHOULD BE AWARE OF THE
CURRENT STATE AS THE TIME
OF OUR INFRASTRUCTURE.
THE DASHBOARD'S ONE STICK TO
THAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
NEXT UP WE HAVE THOMAS STOBART
TOM STALBERG PHONE NUMBER FIVE
THREE FOUR.
GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS TOM STALLWORTH
LOWERTOWN IN ANN ARBOR AND I'M
CALLING WITH REGARDS TO SEE ONE
WHICH IS A REZONING WITH
CONDITION FOR THE BLOCK BOUNDED
BY STATE STIMPSON HENRY WHITE
STREET COMMONLY KNOWN AS
SOUTHTOWN THE CONDITIONAL
REQUEST SHOULD BE DENIED FOR
THE FOLLOWING REASON.
IT IS A KIND OF CONDITIONAL
ZONING THAT THE COURT OF VERY
CLEARLY RULED AGAINST AND IT
WOULD CREATE SIGNIFICANT
POSSIBLE REPERCUSSIONS TO
PROPERTY OWNERS AND TENANTS FOR
MANY BLOCKS NEARBY IN THE AREA
COMMONLY KNOWN AS LOWER BURNS
PARK.
AND THERE IS A LEGAL REMEDY THE
SAME EXACT TYPE PLAN COULD BE
APPROVED IN A DIFFERENT MATTER
THAT WOULD BE LEGAL THE WAY
IT'S APPLIED FOR IS NOT.
I SUGGEST YOU TAKE YOUR CITY
ATTORNEY ABOUT THAT FOR MORE
FORMAL OPINION BUT THIS IS VERY
SIMILAR TO WHAT HAPPENED WITH
THE GOVERNMENT WHICH WAS VOTED
DOWN BECAUSE THE CONDITIONS
THERE WAS NOT LEGAL BUT IT WAS
LATER APPROVED WITH THE EXACT
SAME PLAN WITH A TWENTY FOCUS
ON SOME OF THE RAMIFICATIONS
OF DOING IT THIS WAY RIGHT NOW
THE CITY HAS DECIDED THAT SHORT
TERM RENTALS THAT ARE NOT OWNER
OCCUPIED SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED
NOT PERMITTED IN THERE IS A
RESIDENTIAL ZONE THAT WOULD
INCLUDE DISLOCATION BUT IT
WOULD ALSO INCLUDE EVERYTHING
ON STATE STREET BETWEEN STATE
AND WHITE AS YOU GO NORTH FROM
HERE STADIUM GRANGER THE
KIMBERLY DOOLEY WAS IN THERE
ALL THE WAY UP TO ARCH WHERE
MOST ARCH AUTHORITIES ARE FOR
SOMETHING THAT WOULD PERMIT
SHORT TERM RENTALS.
>> DO YOU TAKE ALL THESE AREAS
THAT ARE NOT INTENDED FOR SHORT
TERM AND LONG AND IF YOU
APPROVE THIS ONE WITH A
CONDITION IN THIS CASE THEY'RE
GOING TO ALLOW SHORT TERM
RENTALS THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
KAPIT A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF ADDITIONAL ZONING FOR THE
NEXT PERSON THAT APPLIES IN ONE
OF THESE PLACES UP DOWN STATE
STREET ACROSS FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN'S
ATHLETIC FACILITIES.
YOU CAN'T SAY NO TO THE NEXT
PERSON BECAUSE CONDITIONAL
ZONING HAS TO BE VOLUNTARY BY
THE DEVELOPER.
YOU CAN'T TURN THEM DOWN FOR
NOT VOLUNTEERING WITH THE LAST
ONE.
DID TURN IT INTO A SITUATION
WHERE YOU'RE GOING TO BE FORCED
TO APPROVE POTENTIALLY DOWNTOWN
TYPE BUILDING OR CONVERSION
OF THOSE HOUSES AS THIS LITTLE
SITUATION REMOVING FROM OUR
LONG TERM LITTLE STOCK IN AN
AREA THAT'S RIGHT NOW IT'S A
STUDENT LOAN SERVICE.
THERE'S ALSO A LOT OF FAMILIES
THAT LIVE THERE.
SO WHETHER WE RISK LOSING LONG
TERM HOUSING STOCK, WHATEVER
SHORT TERM BY ACCIDENT IF WE
DID THIS DELIBERATELY AS PART
OF TOPIC, SO BE IT TO NOT
BACKING INTO IT.
THANK THANK YOU.
>> NEXT UP, WE HAVE DANNY SABAN
HAVING US.
MY NAME IS DANNY SABAN.
I MOVED ANN ARBOR ABOUT A YEAR
AGO FROM EVANSTON WHERE MY
PARTNER WAS A GRADUATE STUDENT
AT NORTHWESTERN.
IT'S A VERY SIMILAR KIND
OF COLLEGE TOWN AND THERE WE
RENTED A ONE BEDROOM APARTMENT
ABOUT FIVE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
SQUARE FEET FOR TWELVE HUNDRED
DOLLARS A MONTH.
WE ANTICIPATED MOVING HERE THAT
WE'D BE ABLE TO FIND SIMILAR
RENTALS BECAUSE THE COST
OF LIVING COMPARISONS SUGGESTS
THAT ANN ARBOR IS ONLY ONE
POINT FIVE TO TWO PERCENT MORE
EXPENSIVE THAN EVANSTON.
WE WERE SHOCKED THEN TO
DISCOVER THAT A COMPARABLE
APARTMENT HERE IS SIXTEEN
HUNDRED DOLLARS WHICH IS THIRTY
THREE PERCENT MORE EXPENSIVE
THAN WHAT WE WERE PAYING.
IT IS PARTICULARLY EGREGIOUS
BECAUSE SALARIES HERE ARE ABOUT
THE SAME AS THEY ARE IN
EVANSTON.
SO THIS REPRESENTS A LARGE
PERCENTAGE OF OUR INCOME.
I RENT FROM MACKINLEY
PROPERTIES AT RECROSSING NOW
WHICH WE HAVE FOUND TO BE LESS
AND DESIRABLE.
WE'VE HAD ISSUES WITH MOLD A
HOT WATER HEATER THAT IS
CONSTANTLY IN AND OUT
OF SERVICE AS WELL AS
STRUGGLING TO GET ANY KIND
OF MAINTENANCE FOR THINGS AS
SIMPLE AS A LIGHT SWITCH REPAIR
PUBLIC SPACES FOR EXAMPLE, A
LAUNDRY ROOM IS CONSISTENTLY
COVERED .
MOLD HAS STANDING WATER AND
ROOF CEILING TILES THAT
DISINTEGRATE AND ARE NOT
REPAIRED DESPITE REPEATED
REQUESTS FOR MAINTENANCE THAT
WE'VE HAD FIVE PROPERTY
MANAGERS SINCE I'VE BEEN HERE
WHICH IS ONLY A YEAR SO THERE'S
BEEN NO CONTINUITY IN
MANAGEMENT FOR TENANTS AND IN
JUST A VERY SMALL EXAMPLE
OF THE LACK OF RESPECT FOR
TENANTS, THE WASHING MACHINES
CHANGE FROM BEING COIN OPERATED
TO BEING APP OPERATED RECENTLY
THE APP ITSELF IS BUGGY AND IN
ITS PRIVACY POLICY SAYS THAT
NOT ONLY DOES IT COLLECT ALL
OF YOUR DATA, YOUR
DEMOGRAPHICS, YOUR LOCATION,
YOUR EMPLOYMENT, YOUR NAME,
YOUR BIRTH DATE, YOUR EMAIL,
YOUR PHONE NUMBER IT CAN AND
WILL SELL IT TO THIRD THIRD
PARTIES AND OTHER VENDORS THAT
THEY CAN USE IN THEIR MARKETING
MATERIALS.
AND I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU BUT
I DON'T REALLY LIKE IT WHEN MY
WASHING MACHINE IS SELLING MY
DATA.
SO I TRIED TO USE A WASH CARD
WHERE YOU PREFILL IT BUT THE
PREFILL CARD STATION IS LOCATED
IN THE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
OFFICE WHICH HAS BEEN CLOSED
ALL SUMMER BECAUSE OUR PROPERTY
MANAGER IS MANAGING FOR OTHER
PROPERTIES AND HAS BEEN UNABLE
TO BE ON THE PROPERTY.
ALL THIS IS NOT WHAT I SIGNED
UP FOR.
THIS IS NOT WHAT WE PAY FOR AND
I'M REALLY HOPING THAT ANN
HARBOR CITY COUNCIL WILL
CONTINUE ITS WORK FOR TENANTS
RIGHTS TO MAKE THESE SITUATIONS
BETTER.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE CLEAR EINARSSON
IF
CLAIRE BURNISON IS ON ZOOME CAN
YOU PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND
CALL
RUNNING IN THE PHONE NUMBER FOR
FAR GO AHEAD.
HELLO MY NAME IS CLAIRE.
I'M FINE.
I'M HERE AS A RENTER A MEMBER
GADGET AND PLAY ORGANIZATION
HAS AN OFFICE AND A MEMBER
OF THE MCKINLEY LEAGUES.
IN MY FIVE YEARS AS A RENTER
DIRECTOR THE CROSSING AND
WITHIN THE PROPERTY IN WARD ONE
HAVE BEEN DEFINED BY THE
MISMANAGEMENT OF MY RENTAL
PROPERTY INCLUDING MANAGEMENT
AUTHORIZING ENTRY INTO MY
APARTMENT FOR REPAIRS WITHOUT
MY PERMISSION OR NOTIFICATION,
URGENT MAINTENANCE FOR THINGS
LIKE BACKUP KEEPING THINGS
GETTING SIGNED BY MANAGEMENT.
THEY DO THE TIME AND THE
BUILDING DOOR THAT WAS
JAMSHEDPUR DURING THE WINTER
THAT THE ONLY MY BUILDING WAS
OVER DURING THE INTERVIEW AND
THE SAME EXTERIOR ARE BEING
UNLOCKED WITHOUT HANDLE WEEK
EVEN AS I RECEIVE NOTIFICATION
FROM A PROPERTY THEIR PACKAGE
AND LOCAL IMODIUM OFFICE LEFT
UNANSWERED EXOTICNESS ASK WHY
HAVEN'T MOVED TO DIFFERENT
PROPERTY BUT LAST YEAR AFTER
MANAGEMENT INCREASED MY RENT BY
ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE DOLLARS
A MONTH AND THEN AS I WAS
DECIDING WHETHER OR NOT TO
RENEW THIS OFFER AND MAKE MY
RENT AN ADDITIONAL FIFTY
DOLLARS A MONTH I TRIED TO FIND
THE APARTMENT.
I FEEL THAT MY FAMILY OWNS 60
PERCENT OF THE WORKFORCE
HOUSING WASHINGTON COUNTY
MAKING IT NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE TO
LEAVE.
I'M LOOKING AT PROPERTY WHEN I
DID FIND SOME ALTERNATIVE EACH
PROPERTY HAD A NEW TENANT AND
THE WAIT AND SEE USUALLY AROUND
DOLLARS EVEN THOUGH THE FEES
ARE REFUNDABLE.
SO THAT GUARANTEE UNIT AND I
WOULD NEED TO MAKE MULTIPLE
DEPOSIT OGUNQUIT IS NOT GETTING
AN APARTMENT I COULD NOT AFFORD
TO PAY HUNDREDS ESSENTIALLY
INTERFERONS THE LANDLORD BUT
ALSO ABOUT FINDING MYSELF
WITHOUT AN APARTMENT.
SO I WAS FORCED TO SELL THE
APARTMENT AGAIN THIS SPRING
WHEN IT CAME TIME FOR MY
RENEWAL IT CAME ALONG WITH A
FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS PER MONTH
INCREASE AND AN INCREASE MAY
KEEP LATE FEES.
AND WHEN I SPOKE AT A CITY
COUNCIL IT WAS IN SUPPORT
OF THE NEW ORDINANCE WHICH
PASSED LAST FALL THAT ALONG
WITH THE ORDINANCE INCREASED
THE RECOGNITION THAT TAKING
PART IN SECURITY AND HOLDING
LANDLORDS ACCOUNTABLE.
BUT THERE IS MUCH MORE THAT CAN
AND NEEDS TO BE THE FIRST
ELIMINATING REFUNDABLE AND
NONREFUNDABLE FEES THAT
PROHIBIT MANY RENTERS FROM
MOVING FROM OR STAYING IN AN
APARTMENT BACK AND ENTERING THE
EXISTING ORDINANCES AND
BUILDING CODES AND SO FORTH AND
COLLECTIVELY DRAFTING ISSUES
AND WORKING WITH THE
RECOGNITION TO ENTER SECTION
AND FINALLY ENDORSING THE
EFFICACY OF THE STATEWIDE RENT
STABILIZATION AND RETURN LOCAL
GOVERNMENT.
HOW LONG AGO BOGDANA USE THE
WORD OVER THERE TO STOKE ON
TRENT PARK LAST YEAR THE SECOND
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
OF WASHINGTON COUNTY IF NOT NOT
JUST FIFTY PERCENT IF CITY
COUNCIL DOES NOT TAKE ACTION TO
PROTECT RENDERING, THE CITY
WILL SOON BE OWNED BY LANDLORDS
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE HENRY
HERSKOVITS
.
GOOD EVENING.
SOMETIMES IT DOESN'T TAKE A
REVISIONIST TO ENLIGHTEN US
ABOUT THE EXAGGERATIONS WE FIND
IN THE HOLOCAUST NARRATIVE.
OFTEN THE ENLIGHTENMENT COMES
AT THE HANDS OF THE HOLOCAUST.
TRADITIONALISTS THEMSELVES
RECOMMENDED READING FROM THE
NRA PUBLIC SCHOOLS HOLOCAUST
CURRICULUM
THE WELL KNOWN NOVEL
NIGHT BY THE FAMOUS ELIE WIESEL
PAGE THIRTY TWO NOT FAR FROM US
HUGE FLAMES WERE RISING FROM A
DITCH.
SOMETHING WAS BEING BURNED
THERE.
A TRUCK DREW BLOWS AND UNLOADED
ITS HOLD SMALL CHILDREN BABIES.
YES I DID SEE THIS WITH MY OWN
EYES CHILDREN THROWN INTO THE
FLAMES.
IS IT ANY WONDER THAT EVER
SINCE THEN SLEEP TENDS TO ELUDE
ME AND THEN ANOTHER BOOK BY THE
SAME AUTHOR THE JEWS OF SILENCE
.
HE WRITES ABOUT THE ALLEGED
MASSACRE OF THIRTY THREE
THOUSAND JEWS OF ARE IN THE
UKRAINE FROM PAGE FORTY EIGHT
WE READ EYEWITNESSED IS SAY
THAT FOUR MONTHS AFTER THE
KILLINGS THE GROUND CONTINUES
TO SPUR GEYSERS OF BLOOD
WITHOUT SUPPORTING EVIDENCE.
DL WANTS US TO BELIEVE THAT
BLOOD SPURTED OUT OF THE GROUND
IN GEISER LIKE FASHION FOR
MONTHS WHEN NO ONE HAS EVER
SEEN SUCH AN OCCURRENCE.
BUT IN THE THIRD BOOK LEGENDS
OF OUR TIME, TEESDALE COMES
CLEAN IN THE INTRODUCTION HE
WRITES ABOUT A CONVERSATION
WITH THE LOCAL RABBI.
WHAT ARE YOU WRITING?
THE RABBI ASKED STORIES I SAID
HE WANTED TO KNOW WHAT KIND
OF STORIES TRUE STORIES ABOUT
PEOPLE YOU KNEW?
YES, ABOUT PEOPLE I MIGHT HAVE
KNOWN ABOUT THINGS THAT
HAPPENED.
YES.
ABOUT THINGS THAT HAPPENED OR
COULD HAVE HAPPENED THAT THEY
DID NOT KNOW.
NOT ALL OF THEM DID.
IN FACT SOME WERE INVENTED FROM
ALMOST THE BEGINNING TO ALMOST
THE END.
THE RABBI LEANED FORWARD AS IF
TO MEASURE ME UP AND SAID WITH
MORE SORROW THAN ANGER THAT
MEANS YOU ARE WRITING LIES.
I DID NOT ANSWER IMMEDIATELY
THE SCOLDED CHILD WITHIN ME HAD
NOTHING TO SAY IN HIS DEFENSE
YET I HAD TO JUSTIFY MYSELF.
THINGS ARE NOT THAT SIMPLE,
RABBI.
SOME EVENTS DO TAKE PLACE BUT
ARE NOT TRUE.
OTHERS ARE ALTHOUGH THEY NEVER
OCCURRED.
WHAT WILL THE REACTION OF ANN
ARBOR STUDENTS BE WHEN I READ
OF SUCH AN ADMISSION?
THANK YOU
.
NEXT WE HAVE AIMO CACO
HI GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS AMY OKAKA AND I HAVE
LIVED IN ANN ARBOR SINCE 2000.
I WANT TO GET YOUR ATTENTION ON
RENT IN THE UNITED IN ANN ARBOR
I MOVED INTO ONE OF THE RENTAL
APARTMENT WHICH WAS PURCHASED
BY THE MONKEY IN 2012.
I HAVE LIVED THERE THE SAME
UNIT FROM 2004 UNTIL NOW SO
IT'S ABOUT THAT NINETEEN YEARS
AND WHEN THEY BEFORE THAT
BETWEEN 2000 AND 2004 I WAS A
GRADUATE STUDENT A YEAR WHEN
AND WHEN I MOVED IN AND 2004
THE MONTHLY RENT WAS ABOUT NINE
HUNDRED DOLLARS AND IT WAS
GRADUALLY GOING UP ABOUT THE
SAME RATE AS INFLATION MAYBE
EYERLY OF MAYBE 200 TO 300
DOLLAR PER YEAR BETWEEN 2001 UP
UNTIL 2020 ONE.
BUT THE LAST TWO YEARS THE RENT
WENT UP EIGHT PERCENT TWELVE
HUNDRED DOLLARS PER YEAR AND
THIS YEAR THIS TO NEXT YEAR IT
WENT UP FIFTEEN PERCENT FROM
THE PREVIOUS YEAR WHICH IS
ABOUT TWENTY TWO HUNDRED
DOLLARS PER YEAR AND I LIVED
THERE FOR A LONG TIME WITH ME
AND MY LIFE AND MY TWO CHILDREN
WHICH NO LONGER LIVE WITH ME.
BUT THIS IS A HOME I MOVED OUT
OF JAPAN AND CAME HERE AND I
ALMOST LIKE MY HOME.
I AM 70 YEARS OLD.
I WAS SEVEN YEARS UNDERGRADUATE
AND GRADUATE FROM SEVENTY SEVEN
THIRTY THREE.
EVEN THEN I LEFT AND A CAME
BACK AND MY WIFE IS AN ARTIST
AND A TEACHER ART TEACHER AND
SHE AND I TOGETHER WE MAKE
PROBABLY NO MORE THAN FORTY
THOUSAND DOLLAR GROSS INCOME
BEFORE TAXES AND SO CURRENTLY
OUR RENT WE ARE ABOUT TWENTY TO
BE OVER TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS
PER YEAR AT THIS CURRENT RATE
AND IT'S ABOUT SIXTY PERCENT
OF OUR GROSS INCOME AND IT'S
REALLY TOUGH FOR US ESPECIALLY
BASTAR YEARS THREE YEARS DURING
THE PANDEMIC WHERE IT'S
DIFFICULT FOR EVERYBODY BUT
BECAUSE MY WIFE AND I ARE NOT
US CITIZENS WE ARE OUR LAWFUL
PERMANENT RESIDENT HOLDING
GREEN CARDS SO WE ARE NOT
ELIGIBLE FOR RECEIVE ECONOMIC
COVID-19 ASSISTANCE YOU KNOW
CHECO ANYTHING SO IT IS REALLY
DIFFICULT FOR US TO YOU KNOW,
CONTINUE TO LIVE AND WE LIKE TO
LIVE IN THIS POSSIBLE THIS
APARTMENT IS A MOVING OUT WHICH
YOU WOULD LIKE TO HANDLE SO I
WOULD LIKE YOU TO CONSIDER SOME
KIND OF RENT CONTROL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE HAVE JENNIFER SPARKS.
GOOD EVENING.
UM, SO I HAVE BEEN A RENTER IN
THE ANN ARBOR AREA SINCE I
MOVED HERE IN TWENTY SIXTEEN
AND I'VE SPENT MOST OF THAT
TIME IN MACKINLEY PROPERTIES.
UM, MY PARTNER AND I CURRENTLY
LIVE AT EVERGREEN BUT FOR SOME
BACKGROUND MY PARTNER LIVED
WITH ROOMMATES IN THE VILLAS
WHICH IS OVER UNCLE'S SITE
BEFORE I JOINED THEM HERE AND
IN THAT APARTMENT WITH MCKINLEY
THE CEILING COLLAPSED TWICE
ONCE BEFORE I MOVED IN AND
AGAIN AFTER IN TWO DIFFERENT
ROOMS I STILL HAVE A FLUSH
TOILETS AT SOME DAMAGE.
UM SO YOU CAN SEE WHY MY
PARTNER GOT ANXIOUS WHEN WE
DISCOVERED A CABINET DOOR IN
OUR CURRENT KITCHEN WOULD NO
LONGER OPEN ALL THE WAY BECAUSE
IT WAS SCRAPING AGAINST A
DROOPING CEILING.
WE HAD TO REPORT THE CEILING
THREE TIMES IN FIRST WE
RECORDED JUST THAT IT REPORTED
JUST THAT IT WAS DROOPING THEN
THAT THERE ARE CRACKS THAT HAD
BEGUN TO SPREAD AND FINALLY
AFTER ALMOST TWO FULL MONTHS
WITH NO RESPONSE, WE SUBMITTED
A REPORT THAT LET THEM KNOW THE
CEILING NOW SAGGED SEVERAL FEET
ACROSS ALONG WITH THOSE REPORTS
I HAD TO CALL AT LEAST TWICE IN
THE END THEY GOT A CONTRACTOR
TO COME OUT, IGNORE OUR
INSTRUCTIONS TO CONTACT US
BEFORE ENTERING AND GET DRYWALL
ALL OVER OUR KITCHEN.
THEY HAD NEGLECTED TO PUT DOWN
A TARP OR ANY OTHER POTENTIAL
REASONABLE PROTECTIONS SO OUR
APPLIANCES COUNTERTOP AND THE
FLOOR WERE COATED IN DEBRIS AND
BECAUSE WE WEREN'T INFORMED
THAT THEY WERE COMING OUR CATS
WERE EXPOSED TO THE DUST WHILE
WE WERE AWAY AND WHILE THE WORK
WAS BEING DONE WE HAD NO EASY
ACCESS TO OUR KITCHEN TO
PREPARE FOOD IN OUR HOME.
WE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO DO AT
THE TIME OR WHO TO TALK TO FOR
HELP IS MACKINLEY IT PROVED
UNRELIABLE AND THAT'S JUST ONE
EXAMPLE OF SORT OF WHAT WE'VE
DEALT WITH THERE.
SO JUST PROVIDING HOUSING COMES
WITH SIGNIFICANT
RESPONSIBILITIES.
IT INVOLVES MANAGEMENT AND
MAINTENANCE.
IT REQUIRES VARYING COSTS
OF INSURANCE AND I'M SURE
THERE'S SO MANY OTHER CONCERNS
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YET BUT AS
TENANTS WE PAY MACKINLEY TO
COVER THESE COSTS AND FULFILL
THESE RESPONSIBILITIES AND A
LOT OF US HAVE NO CHOICE BUT TO
RELY ON THEM FOR HOUSING.
WELL, THEY FAILED THEY FAILED
TO FULFILL THEIR DUTIES AS A
LANDLORD AND I WANTED TO SHARE
THIS STORY IN PARTICULAR TO ASK
THAT THE COUNCIL CONTINUE TO
HOLD THEM ACCOUNTABLE AND
CONTINUE TO WORK TOWARDS TENANT
PROTECTIONS.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP, WE HAVE JUST NUAN
JUST
IN YOU ON COLORADO SEVEN RASTUS
ON MEET YOUR PHONE
.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
OK, SO I GUESS.
YES, MY NAME IS JUST WITH YOU
AND AND I'VE PROPERTY UP THE
THREE YEARS I AM POLY AND ON
THE ISSUE OF NONREFUNDABLE FEES
AND APPLICATION YOU AT THE RATE
THE RENT YOUR FEAR LEVEL CHARGE
FEES FOR APPLYING FOR IT TO
APPLY TO THE PROPERTIES AND
EVERYTHING IS THEY WANT TO MAKE
MONEY NOT JUST PEOPLE WHO ARE
LISA BUT EVERYONE WOULD BE THEM
LOOKING FOR HOUSING HERE.
RIGHT BUT ME THAT WE ALL DENHA
EVEN WHEN YOU ARE ESSENTIALLY
REFUNDABLE IF THEY'RE EXTREMELY
DIFFICULT AND I POSSIBLE TO
ACTUALLY GET REFUNDED I URGE
CITY COUNCIL TO ELIMINATE
NONREFUNDABLE FEES AND HEAVILY
RESTRICT EVEN REFUNDABLE ORDER
TO REMOVE THE BURDEN.
YOU CAN'T BEAR THIS COST AS
MUCH AS THE LANDLORD BUT THIS
IS A NECESSARY STEP AND IT
DOESN'T A LARGER ISSUE AT HAND
OF LANDLORD GREED AND OVERREACH
THE RESULT OF RECENT FORUMS
LIKE THE EARLY AUGMENTED MICRO
DO SHOW THAT LANDLORDS
THEMSELVES WHETHER THEY'RE HUGE
CORPORATE MONSTROSITIES OR EVEN
SO-CALLED MOM POP LANDLORDS
CAN'T BE TRUSTED TO OBEY THESE
THINGS.
THEY CAN'T BE TRUSTED TO FOLLOW
THE REFORMS THAT GET PASSED.
STANDARD REGULATIONS AND
THEY CAN'T BE TRUSTED TO FOLLOW
GUIDELINES THAT ARE ALREADY
STANDARD REGULATIONS AND
EXIST.
GUIDELINES THAT ARE ALREADY
WE NEED TO
FULLY FUND THE
APARTMENTS, OFFICES AND
RELEVANT MECHANISMS TO ENFORCE
EVERYTHING THAT WE HAVE ON THE
BOARD ALREADY AND GO FURTHER IN
STRENGTHENING THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE AND BUILDING UP
THE CAPACITY TO FULLY HOLD THEM
TO ACCOUNT AND MAKE SURE THAT
WE HAVE HOUSING THAT WE CAN
LIVE IN THAT WE CAN NOT JUST
LIVE IN AND KEEP THE REAL LIVE
DIGNIFIED LIFE WHERE WE DON'T
HAVE TO DEAL WITH MOLD
RESPIRATORY ISSUES OR
STRUCTURAL ISSUES THAT ARE PUT
IN HARM'S WAY.
WE CAN LIVE AS HUMAN BEINGS.
I HIGHLY URGE CITY COUNCIL TO
TAKE THIS VERY SERIOUSLY IN MY
DAY JOB I'M A UNION ORGANIZER
AND WE ALL KNOW AS MANY OF YOU
DO A CITY COUNCIL THAT WORKERS
ON THE BACK FOOT.
BUT WHEN I STARTED DOING THE
POLICY STUFF I STARTED HAVING
HOUSING ISSUES MY OWN I FOUND
THAT TENANT THE THE FIGHT THAT
WE HAVE MAKES THE FIGHT THAT
WE'RE WAITING ON.
THE WORKER ORGANIZING SIDE
SEEMED LIKE A CAKEWALK.
IT'S ABSOLUTELY BRUTAL AND WE
HAVE LITTLE TO NO RECOURSE ON A
WIDE WIDE RANGE OF ISSUES.
NO, WE'RE ALL WORKERS WHETHER
WE'RE IN THE WORKPLACE.
A LOT OF THE WORKPLACE I KNOW
MANAGEMENT COUNCIL MAKE A BIG
DEAL OUT OF YOUR WORK
CREDENTIALS.
I HIGHLY URGE YOU TO TAKE THIS
SERIOUSLY AND WE ARE PRO WORKER
WHILE ALSO NEGLECTING THE TO
AND TAKING THESE THINGS LIKE
THEY'RE NOT HERE.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP WE HAVE MIRA
THE CALLER
MIRA IS ON ZOOME PLEASE RAISE
YOUR HAND
AND YOUR PRO TEM.
I DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
INFORMATION ABOUT WHERE THIS
CALLER WAS COMING FROM.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE NEXT
PERSON.
UM, NEXT UP WE HAVE SERGE
VANDERHOOF.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
I RENT OFFICE SPACE FOR ABOUT
FIVE YEARS NOW ON THE CORNER
OF KATHERINE AND 5TH AVERAGE
TWENTY NSF AND I'VE NOTICED SO
I WAS THERE BEFORE A BIKE LANE
WAS BUILT THERE AND I'VE
NOTICED A DIFFERENCE SINCE IT'S
BEEN BUILT.
I THINK IT'S GREAT THAT IT'S
THERE BUT IF YOU'RE HEADING
WEST ON KATHERINE AND MAKING A
LEFT HAND TURN HEADING SOUTH ON
FIFTH AS I'VE NOTICED SOME REAL
CLOSE CALLS WITH A COUPLE
OF PEOPLE WRITING DOWN BECAUSE
YOU CAN KIND OF COME DOWN A
HILL AND KATHERINE AND THEN THE
FIRST DAY OF ART FAIR ACTUALLY
HIT A CYCLIST BECAUSE I HAVE A
I HAVE A PARKING SPOT THERE OFF
KATHERINE AND I WAS LOOKING
FORWARD I HAD MY TURN INDICATOR
AND WHEN I MADE THAT TURN IT
HAPPENED SO FAST AND LUCKILY HE
WAS OK.
HIS BIKE COMPLETELY SWALLOWED
BY MY VAN.
SO WE WALK DOWN HERE AND FILED
A POLICE REPORT AND DID
EVERYTHING RIGHT AND WE WERE
BOTH IN TOTAL AGREEMENT THAT
HOW DANGEROUS IT WAS IN TERMS
OF NOT BEING ABLE TO HE WASN'T
EVEN ABLE TO SEE THAT I HAD MY
TURN SIGNAL ON AND JUST HEADED
STRAIGHT THROUGH AND WE
CONNECTED.
SO THAT INTERSECTION I ACTUALLY
MADE A GRAPHIC BOARD.
I COULDN'T HELP MYSELF.
IT BASICALLY THAT INTERSECTION
HAS A SMOOTH GREEN PAINT JOB
ALL THE WAY THROUGH.
SO THERE'S THERE'S NO
INDICATION RIGHT HERE OF THAT
THAT SOMEBODY COULD BE TURNING,
YOU KNOW, AND THAT'S THAT'S WHY
I'M HERE TO ASK FOR THAT SO
THAT YOU BOTH THE CYCLISTS AND
THE DRIVERS I WOULD SAY THAT
THEY HAVE SOME KIND OF WARNING
OF THAT POSSIBILITY.
THAT'S THAT'S RIGHT.
WHERE I HIT THE BIKER RIGHT
THERE.
IT COULD HAVE BEEN PRETTY
SERIOUS.
IT WAS REALLY SCARY.
SO THANKS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
NEXT UP, WE HAVE FAITH RED WINE
ATIENO
.
WE HAD FAITH IN HOUSE BUT IF
YOU ARE AN ZOOM, CAN YOU RAISE
YOUR HAND
?
>> HEAR ME?
WE CAN THAT EVENING MY NAME IS
MY NAME IS FAITH RED WINE OKANO
AND I'M A SOCIAL WORKER.
I WORK FOR WASHTENAW COUNTY
COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT
COORDINATOR FOR MY POSITION AS
A CARE CO-ORDINATOR FROM
MICHIGAN PRIMARY CARE
ASSOCIATION.
I WORK WITH FORTY FAIRLY
QUALIFIED HEALTH CENTERS
INCLUDING PACARD HELP.
I'M ALSO A MEMBER OF THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY SOCIAL
SERVICES BOARD AND A FUND
REVIEW BOARD TO NAME A FEW IS
MOVING ANIRBAN TO TWENTY
SIXTEEN.
I HAVE LIVED IN SEVEN DIFFERENT
APARTMENT COMPLEXES INCLUDING
MY HOME AND PARTLY OWNED BY MY
PROPERTY AND ONE PRIVATELY
OWNED CONDO AS SOME OF YOU
CONDOMINIUM THE REASON FOR
MOVING OFTEN HAVE TO THE COST
OF HOUSING AND I HAVE LEARNED
THAT HOUSING DOESN'T
ACCOMMODATE NO SINGLE PARENT
HOUSEHOLD OR LOWER INCOME
INDIVIDUALS.
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR IS HERE
MAINLY WITH HIGHER INCOME
FAMILIES COLLEGE STUDENTS IN
ADDITION TO THE PRIVATE
LANDLORDS THE PROPERTY
COMPANIES ARE NOT THE BEST
LANDLORD.
I HAVE LIVED IN PRIVATE
PROPERTY SOME OF YOU ONLY TO
HAVE A LANDLORD WHO IS MORE
INTERESTED RECEIVE REGULAR
MONTHLY INCOME IS THERE
PROVIDING SAFE HOUSING, MOVING
OUT MIGHT BE HAD INCREASED
SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO FAULTY
WINDOW TREATMENTS.
MY THAT IS WORSE BECAUSE MY
MAILBOX HAS BEEN BROKEN SINCE
MOVING IN AND THE WASHER AND
DRYER DOWNSTAIRS ETC. AND DEBIT
CARD HAS SIGNED A LEASE OF PAY
THIRTEEN HUNDRED NINETY NINE
DOLLARS IN RENT AND THREE ONLY
A MONTHLY BUILDING STATEMENT
REGULAR RENTAL INCREASES I PAY
FOURTEEN HUNDRED THIRTY SEVEN
HOURS MY APARTMENT FOR ME
FOURTEEN HUNDRED NINETY DOLLARS
AND THIRTY CENTS FOR JUNE AND
FOURTEEN HUNDRED NINETY SEVEN
DOLLARS AND FOUR CENTS FOR JULY
.
I BELIEVE FLORIDA HOUSING IS A
GREAT IDEA AND I DID SUGGEST
THE FUNDING REVIEW MEETING
PROPERTIES ARE AFFORDABLE AND
ARE CREATED TO ACCOMMODATE
MULTIPLE INCOME LEVELS IN
ADDITION TO HAVING SERVED ON
THE BOARD TO ADDRESS THESE
CONCERNS WITH THE STAFF I
RAISED THE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
OR THE PRIVATE LANDLORDS.
THE ISSUES ARE NOT ADDRESSED
IMMEDIATELY IN ADDITION TO THE
INFORMATION THAT THEY ARE
AVAILABLE AT SOME APARTMENT
COMPLEX ARE STILL RELATIVELY
HIGH COST BUT AS POSSIBLE SOME
SUBSIDIZED HOUSING COMPLEXES
ARE HORRIBLE NEGATIVE
CONNOTATIONS WITH THE WORD
SUBSIDIZED AND FOR INDIVIDUALS
WE MUST REMEMBER THAT SAFE,
AFFORDABLE, LIVABLE AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS A HUMAN
RIGHT IN FACT ONE OF THE MOST
UNHEALTHY STATE HOUSING
ENTITIES INDIVIDUALS ARE UNABLE
TO AFFORD OR DO NOT RECEIVE
HOUSING.
IT CAN AFFECT THEIR MENTAL
HEALTH QUALITY OF LIFE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
WELL WE HAVE REACHED FIFTEEN
PEOPLE I BELIEVE WE HAVE A
LITTLE BIT OF TIME LEFT SO
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE ONE MORE
CALLER WE JESSICA BREZINSKI
NEXT
.
HELLO MY NAME IS JESSICA
BREZINSKI AND I'VE BEEN A ANN
ARBOR RESIDENT SINCE I CAME TO
COLLEGE HERE WHEN I WAS
EIGHTEEN.
IS THAT FOR SEVEN YEARS WHEN I
LIVED AND TAUGHT IN DETROIT
I'VE BEEN A RENTER.
I'VE GOT A HOMEOWNER AND THEN
I'M BACK TO RENTING AGAIN
THANKS TO DIVORCE I LIVE IN
TRAVER CROSSING AT BARTON DRIVE
AND PLYMOUTH ROAD IS OWNED BY
MCKINLEY.
THE REASON I'M THERE IS
STRICTLY BECAUSE OF THE
LOCATION.
THE LOCATION IS GREAT.
EVERYTHING ELSE IS TERRIBLE.
IT'S RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET
FROM MY DAUGHTER'S SCHOOL.
SHE'S ABLE TO WALK TO HER DAD'S
HOUSE AND TO HER FRIEND'S
HOUSE.
SO THAT'S THAT SUPERIMPORTANT.
OUR TWO BEDROOM IS ONE THOUSAND
SIX HUNDRED TWENTY THREE
DOLLARS WITH FEES AND UTILITIES
IT'S OVER SEVENTEEN HUNDRED
DOLLARS MONTH AND OUR RENT WENT
UP EIGHT PERCENT THIS YEAR.
I FEEL LIKE I DON'T WANT TO
MOVE OUT OF AN OUT OF ANN
ARBOR.
I DON'T THINK I SHOULD HAVE TO
MOVE OUT OF ANN OR IF YOU'RE A
RENTER THERE'S REALLY NO
CHEAPER PLACE THAN MACKINLEY.
IT'S NOT A HEALTHY PLACE TO
LIVE.
WE HAVE BLACK MOLD IN THE MAIN
PROBLEM IS THE PLUMBING IS FROM
LIKE THE SIXTIES.
IT ALL NEEDS TO BE REPLACED BUT
THAT'S NOT MCKINLEY'S NEVER
GOING TO DO THAT BECAUSE IT'S
WAY TOO EXPENSIVE.
SO THE PLUMBING CONTINUOUSLY
LEAKS AND WE CONTINUALLY HAVE
MOLD AND BAD AIR QUALITY.
I'VE HEARD MICE THREE TIMES.
THIS IS WHEN YOU REACH INTO
YOUR PURSE FOR SOMETHING AND A
MOUSE LEAPS OUT OF YOUR PURSE
AND ONTO YOU IT'S ALMOST LIKE
OH YEAH, THERE'S A BAD RODENT
PROBLEM.
I'M GENERALLY PRETTY LAID BACK
AND I WOULDN'T BE SO ANGRY IF
THERE WASN'T SUCH A DISCONNECT
BETWEEN THE QUALITY OF OUR
LIVING SITUATION AND THE RAT IS
JUST SO INCREDIBLY MISMATCHED.
THERE'S A NEW WAVE OF TENANT
ORGANIZING IN ANN ARBOR IN IPSI
AND STATEWIDE BECAUSE THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CRISIS IS
MAKING PEOPLE DESPERATE AND
IT'S TOTALLY UNSUSTAINABLE AND
THERE'S REALLY THERE IS NO
PLACE TO GO REQUIRING
DEVELOPERS TO INCLUDE A HANDFUL
OF AFFORDABLE UNITS TO APPROVE
THEIR BUILDING.
IT'S COMPLETELY INSUFFICIENT.
WE NEED PEOPLE ON OUR SIDE AT
THE STATE LEVEL AND THE CITY
LEVEL WHO ARE WILLING TO FLAT
OUTSIDE THE TENANTS AGAINST THE
BIG LANDLORDS.
THIS IS NOT A WIN WIN
SITUATION.
WE NEED AGGRESSIVE BROAD
POLICIES LIKE LIMITING RENT
INCREASES.
WE NEED PUBLIC HOUSING THAT'S
NOT FOR PROFIT AND THAT'S MIXED
INCOME BECAUSE THEN YOU CAN GET
OVER SOME OF THE YOU KNOW, THE
NEGATIVE STEREOTYPES OF PUBLIC
HOUSING.
THE LANDLORDS ARE GOING TO
FIGHT ANY EFFECTIVE POLICY AND
WE NEED YOU TO STAND WITH US.
THAT'S WHY WE MOBILIZED THE
CITY COUNCIL MEETING TONIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO BE MOBILIZING TO
LANSING TO DEMAND STATEWIDE
POLICIES AND WE WOULD LIKE YOUR
SUPPORT.
SO THANK YOU FOR HAVING US IN
THE LAST THING I LIKE TO DO
THIS I'M GOING TO GIVE YOU THE
PETITION THAT WE HAD COMMUNITY
MEMBERS SIGN IN SUPPORT OF US.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
AND YOU CAN BRING THAT TO THE
CLERK.
THANKS
.
HAVING REACHED THE CONCLUSION
OF OUR FORTY FIVE MINUTE PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVED TIME ANY
REMAINING SPEAKERS WE WILL
REOPEN PUBLIC COMMENT AT THE
END OF THE MEETING FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW.
WE NOW COME TO COMMUNICATIONS
FROM COUNCIL.
ARE THERE ANY COMMUNITY
COMMUNICATIONS FROM COUNCIL
THIS EVENING COUNCIL MEMBER
BRITISH OPEN THEY JUST WANTED
TO BE ASSURED COME ON THE
QUESTION OF HOW RACE PEOPLE
WANT TO JOIN HANDS IS DIVIDED
USING EDUCATION AS A COMPANY,
STRUMMER'S LOT OF LIKE THIS AND
I JUST LIKE ISSUE NOTHING CAN
PASS THE PLAN TO BRIDGE
CHRISTIAN SO IS YOURS.
I JUST TRIED TO ADDRESS THE UH
PULPING
ONTO THE SUBJECT
OF BEGINNING SEPTEMBER 4TH,
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO PUT OUT
A 10 PAPER BAGS FOR COMPOST
PICK UP IN ADDITION TO FILLING
UP YOUR YOU KNOW, COMPOST
CONTAINER.
WE'VE HEARD CONCERNS ABOUT THIS
AND I WANT TO EMPHASIZE THAT
THIS IS NOT A SERVICE CUT.
IT IS PROBABLY A CHANGE IN YOUR
WORKFLOW.
LOTS OF US CRAM OUR FALL IN
SPRING CLEANUPS INTO A SINGLE
SEASON AND WE END UP WITH 30
BAGS OUT AT OUR CURB.
NOW OVER THE COURSE OF THE
SEASON YOU WILL STILL BE ABLE
TO PUT OUT ALL THE BAGS THAT
YOU FILL.
I DON'T THINK EVEN A 10 BAGS A
WEEK YOU'RE GOING TO EXCEED THE
LIMIT IF YOU PUT EVEN IF YOU
DID 10 EVERY WEEK FROM
SEPTEMBER TO WHENEVER DECEMBER
YOU WOULDN'T RUN OUT.
YOU JUST CAN'T PUT THEM OUT ALL
ONCE.
AND I WANT TO JUST EXPLAIN THAT
THE MAIN MOTIVATION FOR THIS
CHANGE IS SAFETY FOR THE CITY
EMPLOYEES WHO COLLECT OUR
COMPOST.
THEY HAVE TO LOAD EACH BAG BY
HAND ONTO A TRUCK AND THOSE
TRUCKS ARE NOT LOW TO THE
GROUND.
THIS COUNCIL HAS BEEN AN
ADVOCATE FOR WORKER HEALTH AND
SAFETY WHEN EVALUATING
CONTRACTOR CONTRACTS AND THIS
WORKFLOW MANAGEMENT AIMS TO
PROTECT OUR IN-HOUSE WORKERS.
SO WE ARE NOT THIS IS NOT A
CHANGE THAT WE VOTE ON BUT IT
IS A CHANGE THAT I PERSONALLY
SUPPORT.
AND IF YOU'RE WORRIED ABOUT HOW
TO ADAPT TO IT, TALK TO YOUR
NEIGHBORS.
WE DON'T ALL CLEAN OUR YARDS UP
IN THE SAME WEEK AND SO AND
I'LL JUST LET ANYBODY KNOW THAT
IF YOU YOU KNOW, I'LL DO IT
ONCE.
THAT'S ALL I EVER DO.
I'M VERY LAZY.
YOU ARE WELCOME TO DROP 10
OF YOUR BAGS OFF IN MY FRONT
YARD ANY TIME MY BAGS AREN'T
OUT THERE AND I BET YOU CAN
REACH SIMILAR AGREEMENTS WITH
YOUR OWN NEIGHBORS.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBERS ON I DON'T KNOW
IF I CAN MAKE THE SAME OFFER.
I'M SORRY TO SEE MR. KOKU HAS
LEFT.
I ACTUALLY I WAS REALLY
DELIGHTED AND SURPRISED TO HEAR
FROM HIM SO I WROTE A LITTLE
NOTE HOPEFULLY STILL WATCHING A
LITTLE RETURN AND WATCH ONLINE
.
I ACTUALLY KNOW THE KARKUS FROM
WHAT I DID MY MSW FIELD
PLACEMENT INTERNATIONAL FAMILY
OUTREACH PROJECT ON NORTH
CAMPUS HOUSING BACK IN 2000
THREE.
SO THAT'S TWENTY YEARS AGO AND
AT THE TIME THE HOUSING
STRUGGLES WERE FOR
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS QUITE
COMPLICATED SINCE SPOUSES
BECAUSE OF THEIR VISA STATUS
WERE NOT ALLOWED TO WORK HERE
IN THE STATES.
SO THE HOUSING CRISIS CONTINUES
TWO DECADES LATER.
I REALLY APPRECIATED THE
COMMENTS BECAUSE I THINK WE
FORGET THAT WE ASSUME THE
HOUSING CRISIS IMPACTS MOSTLY
STUDENTS CLEARLY IMPACTS
FAMILIES AND IT'S FOR THE
KARKUS IT'S A I THINK I WANT TO
REMIND FOLKS THAT THIS IS A
FAMILY THAT RAISED TWO CHILDREN
IN ANN ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
LYDIA IS AN ACTIVE ARTIST.
YOU'VE SEEN HER WORK.
OH, MR. KATKA, I'VE I'VE BEEN
TO LYDIA'S ART EXHIBITIONS.
HER WORK HAS BEEN FEATURED IN
SWEETWATERS WITH COMMUNITY
MEMBERS THAT WE KNOW AND SEE
AND WITNESS STRUGGLE AND TO
ACTUALLY VOICE THAT STRUGGLE.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THAT
REMINDER OF HOW THE IMPACT IS
ONGOING AND THE STRUGGLE WE
SHARED.
SO THAT'S A LOT TO THINK ABOUT
.
I ALSO WANTED TO INVITE FOLKS
TO JEWISH FAMILY SERVICES WALK
A MILE IN MY SHOES.
IT'S THE THIRD ANNUAL EVENT BE
IN BURNS THIS YEAR AND
SEPTEMBER 10TH.
I'M A JEWISH FAMILY SERVICES
BOARD AND THIS IS A FUNDRAISER
THAT'S IN SUPPORT OF THE
SERVICES THEY PROVIDE FOR
RESETTLING REFUGEES, SUPPORTING
OLDER ADULTS, FAMILIES DEALING
WITH FOOD SECURITY, INSECURITY
AND NEEDING COUNSELING SUPPORT.
AND I JUST WANT TO I WILL
CONTINUE WITH MY PLEDGE EVERY
TIME A HOLOCAUST DENIER COME TO
GIVE PUBLIC COMMENTS HERE TO
GIVE A THOUSAND DOLLARS.
I'M HAPPY TO GIVE THAT DONATION
TO THE ORGANIZATION I LOVE AND
TO A COMMUNITY THAT STILL
STRUGGLES WITH WITH HATE HERE.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS WANT TO
THANK EVERYBODY WHO CAME IN
MOST EVERYBODY WHO CAME AND
PROVIDED PUBLIC COMMENT TONIGHT
.
I KNOW IT'S HARD TO COME AND
AND AND MAKE TIME FOR THIS AND
ALSO TO GET IN FRONT OF GROUP
AND SO I APPRECIATE YOU TAKING
THE TIME TO DO THAT AND SHARING
YOUR STORIES WITH US.
I WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT WE ARE
ALSO VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING CRISIS THAT
WE'RE HAVING OUR CITY MAKING.
WE ARE COMMITTED TO IMPROVING
RENTERS RIGHTS.
I SPOKE WITH REPRESENTATIVE
KERRY BRANNIGAN'S RECENTLY
SHARING MY SUPPORT FOR RENT
CONTROL AS WELL.
SO I KNOW THAT THOSE ARE THE
THINGS THAT YOU HAVE BROUGHT
FORWARD ARE THINGS THAT WE ARE
TRYING TO MOVE FORWARD AS WELL.
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT ON OTHER
ITEMS THAT I WANTED TO TO
MENTION TONIGHT AS WELL FOR
THOSE WHO ARE INTERESTED ABOUT
AN ENERGY RELATED ISSUES
TOMORROW NIGHT AT THE ENERGY
COMMISSION MEETING THERE'S
GOING TO BE A ROUNDTABLE
DISCUSSION REGARDING OUR OUR
GRID THAT'S GOING TO FEATURE
SOMEBODY PROFESSOR FROM
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AS WELL
AS THE REPRESENTATIVE FROM D.T.
IN RESPONSE TO A DESIRE TO
UNDERSTAND MORE SOME OF THE
REASONS THAT WE'RE HAVING OUR
POWER OUTAGES AND THE REASONS
SPIKE OUR NEED TO PREVENT THEM
AND ALSO THE POWER SURGES WE'VE
BEEN EXPERIENCING.
AND FINALLY COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL WHO IS USUALLY HERE MY
COLLEAGUE IN THE FIFTH WARD AND
I WILL BE HAVING A LISTENING
HOUR ON SUNDAY, AUGUST 20TH AT
FROM FOUR TO FIVE P.M. OR LATER
IF WE NEED TO AT THE ANIBA ART
CENTER ON THE SECOND FLOOR AND
THAT'S WE DO THAT MONTHLY.
SO ALWAYS WELCOME FOLKS FROM
THE FIFTH QUARTER TO COME OUT
AND CHAT WITH US IN PERSON.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER ECKMANN.
I THINK YOU SPOKE A COUPLE
THANK YOU.
OF MEETINGS AGO ABOUT UPGRADES
I THINK YOU SPOKE A COUPLE
TO THE ALLMENDINGER PARK
OF MEETINGS AGO ABOUT UPGRADES
PLAYGROUND.
TO THE ALLMENDINGER PARK
I WENT PAST THE PARK TODAY AND
PLAYGROUND.
NOTICED THAT THE WORK STARTED
I WENT PAST THE PARK TODAY AND
THIS WEEK.
NOTICED THAT THE WORK STARTED
IT LOOKS LIKE THE EXISTING
THIS WEEK.
PLAYGROUND MINUS THE MERRY GO
IT LOOKS LIKE THE EXISTING
ROUND IS FENCED OFF WHILE THEY
PLAYGROUND MINUS THE MERRY GO
DO THE UPGRADES.
ROUND IS FENCED OFF WHILE THEY
BUT IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE A FOUR
DO THE UPGRADES.
WEEK TIMELINE.
BUT IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE A FOUR
SO I WANTED TO MENTION THAT
WEEK TIMELINE.
WORD FOR NEWS .
SO I WANTED TO MENTION THAT
I ALSO WANTED TO DRIVE PEOPLE'S
WORD FOR NEWS .
ATTENTION TO THE WORK OF DR.
I ALSO WANTED TO DRIVE PEOPLE'S
FRED FANG WHO'S AN ASSISTANT
ATTENTION TO THE WORK OF DR.
PROFESSOR AT U OF M DEARBORNE
FRED FANG WHO'S AN ASSISTANT
WHO'S BEEN DOING A BIKE
PROFESSOR AT U OF M DEARBORNE
COUNTERPRESSURE NORTH DIVISION
WHO'S BEEN DOING A BIKE
NEAR KATHERINE OVER THE LAST
COUNTERPRESSURE NORTH DIVISION
YEAR OR SO.
NEAR KATHERINE OVER THE LAST
I SAW HIM FRIDAY NIGHT AT AN
YEAR OR SO.
ARBOR'S MONTHLY BIKE PARTY.
I SAW HIM FRIDAY NIGHT AT AN
THIS IS ALL AGES ALL ABILITIES
ARBOR'S MONTHLY BIKE PARTY.
SLOW ROLL THROUGH ANN ARBOR.
THIS IS ALL AGES ALL ABILITIES
I ENCOURAGE YOU ALL TO ATTEND
SLOW ROLL THROUGH ANN ARBOR.
SOMETIME.
I ENCOURAGE YOU ALL TO ATTEND
IT'S REALLY A LOT OF FUN AND
SOMETIME.
VERY ACCESSIBLE ANYWAY HE LET
IT'S REALLY A LOT OF FUN AND
ME KNOW THAT RECORD NUMBERS
VERY ACCESSIBLE ANYWAY HE LET
WERE COMING IN THE JULY NUMBERS
ME KNOW THAT RECORD NUMBERS
AND HIS TEAM OBSERVED AN ALL
WERE COMING IN THE JULY NUMBERS
TIME HIGH MONTHLY COUNT OF TEN
AND HIS TEAM OBSERVED AN ALL
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED AND TWO
TIME HIGH MONTHLY COUNT OF TEN
BIKE TRIPS.
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED AND TWO
AVERAGE DAILY TRIPS WERE THREE
BIKE TRIPS.
HUNDRED AND THIRTY NINE THE
AVERAGE DAILY TRIPS WERE THREE
PEAK DAY COUNT WAS FIVE HUNDRED
HUNDRED AND THIRTY NINE THE
AND EIGHT WHICH IS ALSO THE ALL
PEAK DAY COUNT WAS FIVE HUNDRED
TIME HIGH.
AND EIGHT WHICH IS ALSO THE ALL
THAT'S OVER TEN THOUSAND RIDES
TIME HIGH.
THAT WE'RE NOT IN A CAR HELPING
THAT'S OVER TEN THOUSAND RIDES
US NOT ONLY WITH OUR CLIMATE
THAT WE'RE NOT IN A CAR HELPING
ACTION GOALS BUT ALSO WITH
US NOT ONLY WITH OUR CLIMATE
CONGESTION FOR THOSE WHO ARE
ACTION GOALS BUT ALSO WITH
DRIVING AND WE'RE SEEING THE
CONGESTION FOR THOSE WHO ARE
NUMBER OF RIDES THIS IS
DRIVING AND WE'RE SEEING THE
CONSISTENT WITH AN INCREASE
NUMBER OF RIDES THIS IS
THAT WE'RE SEEING AND BIKE
CONSISTENT WITH AN INCREASE
RIDING AS WE BUILD OUT BUFFORD
THAT WE'RE SEEING AND BIKE
SEPARATED BIKE LANES DIVISION
RIDING AS WE BUILD OUT BUFFORD
IN PARTICULAR WAS JUST RECENTLY
SEPARATED BIKE LANES DIVISION
EXTENDED ALL THE WAY DOWN A
IN PARTICULAR WAS JUST RECENTLY
HOOVER.
EXTENDED ALL THE WAY DOWN A
AND SO I THINK THIS JUST
HOOVER.
HIGHLIGHTS THE IMPORTANCE
AND SO I THINK THIS JUST
OF CREATING A SAFE COMPLETE
HIGHLIGHTS THE IMPORTANCE
NETWORK FOR PEOPLE TO GET WHERE
OF CREATING A SAFE COMPLETE
THEY NEED TO GO.
NETWORK FOR PEOPLE TO GET WHERE
YOU CAN VISIT THE DASHBOARD IF
THEY NEED TO GO.
YOU JUST GOOGLE BIKE COUNTER IN
YOU CAN VISIT THE DASHBOARD IF
ANN ARBOR IT WILL COME UP.
YOU JUST GOOGLE BIKE COUNTER IN
HIS TEAM USES A CABLE ON THE
ANN ARBOR IT WILL COME UP.
GROUND MUCH LIKE YOU SEE FOR
HIS TEAM USES A CABLE ON THE
AUTOMOBILE TRAFFIC CONES.
GROUND MUCH LIKE YOU SEE FOR
AND JUST AS A WARNING THEY
AUTOMOBILE TRAFFIC CONES.
HAVEN'T BEEN COLLECTING WINTER
AND JUST AS A WARNING THEY
DATA BECAUSE THE CABLE IS
HAVEN'T BEEN COLLECTING WINTER
SUSCEPTIBLE TO SNOW PLOWING.
DATA BECAUSE THE CABLE IS
SO IF YOU GO THERE AND YOU SEE
SUSCEPTIBLE TO SNOW PLOWING.
NO RIDES FOR THE MONTHS, I
SO IF YOU GO THERE AND YOU SEE
THINK OF NOVEMBER UNTIL MAY
NO RIDES FOR THE MONTHS, I
IT'S NOT BECAUSE THERE ARE NO
THINK OF NOVEMBER UNTIL MAY
RIDERS.
IT'S NOT BECAUSE THERE ARE NO
IT'S BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T
RIDERS.
HAPPENING DURING THAT TIME.
IT'S BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T
SO THAT'S IT.
HAPPENING DURING THAT TIME.
THANKS.
SO THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
THANKS.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO JUST THANK
THANK YOU.
AND ACKNOWLEDGE ALL THE FOLKS
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO JUST THANK
WHO CAME TONIGHT TO SPEAK ABOUT
AND ACKNOWLEDGE ALL THE FOLKS
RENTER'S ISSUES.
WHO CAME TONIGHT TO SPEAK ABOUT
I KNOW THAT THIS IS SOMETHING
RENTER'S ISSUES.
AS AS A LIAISON TO THE RENTERS
I KNOW THAT THIS IS SOMETHING
COMMISSION ALONG WITH COUNCIL
AS AS A LIAISON TO THE RENTERS
MEMBER HARRISON THAT WE'RE
COMMISSION ALONG WITH COUNCIL
WORKING ON QUITE REGULARLY.
MEMBER HARRISON THAT WE'RE
I DO WANT TO JUST REITERATE I
WORKING ON QUITE REGULARLY.
THINK MANY OF US HAVE SPOKEN
I DO WANT TO JUST REITERATE I
WITH OUR LEGISLATIVE LEADERS
THINK MANY OF US HAVE SPOKEN
ABOUT THE NEED FOR STATE ACTION
WITH OUR LEGISLATIVE LEADERS
IN ORDER TO ENABLE RENT CONTROL
ABOUT THE NEED FOR STATE ACTION
TO ALLOW OUR LOCAL GOVERNMENT
IN ORDER TO ENABLE RENT CONTROL
TO EVEN DO ANYTHING THAT LOOKS
TO ALLOW OUR LOCAL GOVERNMENT
LIKE A RESTRICTION ON RENT.
TO EVEN DO ANYTHING THAT LOOKS
AND SO IT'S SOMETHING THAT I
LIKE A RESTRICTION ON RENT.
CERTAINLY SUPPORT.
AND SO IT'S SOMETHING THAT I
IT'S SOMETHING THAT I KNOW MANY
CERTAINLY SUPPORT.
OF MY COLLEAGUES SUPPORT.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT I KNOW MANY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AND I
OF MY COLLEAGUES SUPPORT.
ARE ALSO WORKING WITH STAFF
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AND I
RIGHT NOW ON LEGISLATION TO
ARE ALSO WORKING WITH STAFF
ADDRESS THE NONREFUNDABLE FEES
RIGHT NOW ON LEGISLATION TO
AND WAITLIST FEES.
ADDRESS THE NONREFUNDABLE FEES
WE KNOW THAT IT'S A PROBLEM.
AND WAITLIST FEES.
WE HAVE RECOMMENDATIONS FROM
WE KNOW THAT IT'S A PROBLEM.
THE RENTERS COMMISSION AND
SO
WE'VE ACTUALLY MET WITH WITH
LEGAL STAFF AND ARE BEGINNING
TO WORK ON AN ORDINANCE TO
HOPEFULLY ADDRESS THAT.
AND SO HOPEFULLY WE'LL HAVE
MORE ACTION SOON.
AND THEN I ALSO JUST WANT I
KNOW THAT WE HAVE A CLOSED
SESSION THIS EVENING OR AND
INTO A PLAN FOR A CLOSED
SESSION THIS EVENING.
SO IF ANYONE WHO IS STILL ON
THIS LIST IS NOT ABLE TO STAY
TILL THE END OF OUR MEETING AND
YOU WANT TO SEND US YOUR
COMMENTS, WE WILL ALSO
OF COURSE READ THEM THAT WAY
AND AND MAKE SURE THAT THEY GET
INTO THE RECORD.
BUT I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT EVERYBODY HAS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BE HEARD EVEN IF
YOU CAN'T STAY TO THE
CONCLUSION OF THE MEETING.
FINALLY I WILL ANNOUNCE THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN AND
I HAVE OUR NEXT OFFICE HOURS
OUR COFFEE HOUR ON AUGUST 19TH
AT 11:00 IT WILL BE AT THE
BRYANT COMMUNITY CENTER AND SO
WE ARE DOING IT IN COORDINATION
WITH DEREK MILLER, THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF CAN TO
TALK ABOUT THE WORK ON
SUSTAINABILITY IN THE BRYANT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
BUT WE ALSO ASK THAT ANYONE WHO
COMES OUT TO CHAT WITH US
BRINGS A NONPERISHABLE FOOD
ITEM TO DONATE TO THE BRYANT
FOOD PANTRY.
SO WE HOPE TO SEE MANY OF THERE
.
ARE THERE ANY MORE COMMENTS
FROM COUNCIL ON AT OUR NEXT
MEETING?
I AM NOT THE MAYOR BUT ON
BEHALF OF THE MAYOR I WOULD
LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION AT OUR NEXT
MEETING TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
MARCHAND'S TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION JULIE WHETHER AND TO
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
CITY OR A CLERK AND ALSO AT THE
NEXT MEETING WE WILL HAVE A
RESOLUTION TO APPOINT A NON
RESIDENT ELECTOR VANESSA
JACKSON TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION
.
WE NOW COME TO THE CONSENT
AGENDA.
DO I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE CONSENT OF MY COUNCIL
MEMBER OR SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER AKMAN BELIEVES WE HAVE A
STAFF INTRODUCTION ON THIS
BEFORE WE
I CAN DO THAT.
I DON'T KNOW.
OK, DO YOU HAVE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT OF THE COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON WANT A POLICY
SIXTEEN
COUNCILMAN RESIGN.
UM I WON'T BE PULLING TWELVE.
I JUST WANT TO COMMENT.
I THINK THIS IS THE RIGHT POINT
COMMENT THAT I'M SPEAKING
OF STRUGGLES OF VEGETATION.
I JUST WANT A NOTE THAT DAVY
DAVY RECOUPLING SCORED A
PERFECT HUNDRED IN THEIR BID ON
QUALIFICATIONS EXPERIENCE
ACCOUNTABILITY, ABILITY AND
WE'RE IN THE LOWEST BID AND
AGREED IN THEIR AGREEMENT
AGREED TO WAGE AND
NONDISCRIMINATION REQUIREMENTS
THAT THE CITY HAS SO I'M REALLY
LOOKING FORWARD TO THAT THAT
THAT CONTRACT AND THAT VOTE
AGAINST VEGETATION.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA, ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF A SIXTEEN PLEASE
SAY ANY OPPOSE THE CONSENT
AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH WITH
TEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
WITH NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT FOR 18,
19 AND 20 SEAT 16 A RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE A CONTRACT WITH AND
I RESPECT FOR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT SERVICES MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
LATSON THEIR DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON YES, WE DO HAVE
THIS THIS IS WHERE WE HAVE THE
ADMINISTRATOR ABOUT THIS IS
WHERE WE HAVE THE SECOND
PRODUCTION.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
WE HAD A REQUEST FOR STAFF
REDUCTION.
HOWEVER, WE DIDN'T HAVE
SUFFICIENT TIME TO ADDRESS THE
QUESTIONS THAT WERE PRESENTED
TO US.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE ABOUT A WEEK
TO DO THAT.
BUT WE DIDN'T WANT TO GO AHEAD
AND PUT THE QUESTIONS ON THE
RECORD TONIGHT AND WE'LL SUPPLY
THE ANSWERS IN WRITING FOR TO
THE COUNCIL MEMBER FOR NEXT
WEEK.
WHAT PERCENTAGE OF CLIENTS ARE
BEST PARK IN THEIR PREVIOUS
CONTRACTS WERE IN THE CITY WITH
THE CITY WHERE BLACK ETHNIC
MINORITY OWNED BUSINESSES?
HOW MANY OF THE BUSINESSES
SPARKE WORKED WITH UNDER THEIR
CITY CONTRACTS OR DISABILITY
OWNED?
WHAT WAS THE NUMBER OR
PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN OWNED
BUSINESSES THAT SPARK SUPPORTED
DURING THEIR PREVIOUS CONTRACTS
WITH THE CITY?
HOW MANY VETERAN OWNED
BUSINESSES WERE AMONG THE
CLIENTS SERVED BY SPARKE IN
THEIR PREVIOUS CONTRACTS WITH
THE CITY?
WHAT WAS THE NUMBER OR
PERCENTAGE OF LGBTQ PLUS OLD
BUSINESSES ITS PARKS SUPPORTED
DURING THEIR PREVIOUS CONTRACTS
WITH THE CITY?
COULD YOU ELABORATE ON THE
METHODS STRATEGY SPOX USED TO
OUTREACH TO COMMUNITIES
OF BLACK ETHNIC MINORITY OWNED
BUSINESSES, DISABILITY OLD
WOMEN OWN VETERAN OWNED AND
LGBTQ PLUS OLD BUSINESSES?
WHAT AMOUNT OF FUNDING WAS
SECURED BY SPARK FOR BUSINESSES
OWNED BY BLACK ETHNIC
MINORITIES, PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES, WOMEN VETERANS
AND LGBTQ PLUS COMMUNITY?
HOW HAS PARKS APPROACH TO
SUPPORTING DIVERSE BUSINESS
OWNERS INCLUDING THE LGBTQ PLUS
COMMUNITY EVOLVED SINCE THE
WASHTENAW DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL
AND ANN ARBOR SPART
CONSOLIDATION IN TWO THOUSAND
AND SIX HOW MANY SPARKE
INCUBATED AND ASSISTED
BUSINESSES HIRED GRADUATES FROM
THE MICHIGAN'S PUBLIC
UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES?
HOW MANY OF THESE GRADUATES
BECAME EMPLOYED THROUGH SPARKS
JOB BOARD?
WHAT IS THE RACIAL AND ETHNIC
COMPOSITION OF SPARC STAFF AND
BOARD?
HOW MANY MEMBERS ARE FROM BLACK
OR ETHNIC MINORITY BACKGROUNDS
?
HOW MANY MEMBERS OF SPARKE
STAFF ON BOARD ARE INDIVIDUALS
WITH DISABILITIES?
WHAT IS THE GENDER BALANCE
WITHIN SPARKE STAFF AND BOARD?
HOW MANY WOMEN HOW MANY MEMBERS
OF SPARKE STAFF AND BOARD ARE
VETERANS?
WHAT IS THE REPRESENTATION
OF LGBTQ PLUS INDIVIDUALS
WITHIN SPARKS STAFF AND BOARD
WHAT STRATEGIES OR INITIATIVES
HAS BEEN IMPLEMENTED TO PROMOTE
DIVERSITY WITHIN ITS STAFF ON
BOARD?
CAN YOU PROVIDE INFORMATION
EXCUSE ME ABOUT ANY TRAINING OR
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS THAT
SPARKASSE IMPLEMENTED TO ENSURE
ITS STAFF ON BOARD ARE
KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT WORKING TO
DIVERSE BUSINESSES AND
COMMUNITIES INCLUDING BLACK
ETHNIC MINORITY OWNED
DISABILITY OWNED WOMEN, OWN
VETERAN OWNED AND LGBTQ PLUS
OWNED BUSINESSES.
AND THE FINAL QUESTION HAS
SPARKED TAKING ANY MEASURES TO
ENSURE ITS LEADERSHIP INCLUDING
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS REFLECTS
THE DIVERSITY OF THE
COMMUNITIES IT SERVES SO THOSE
ARE THE QUESTIONS FOR THE
RECORD STAFF NEEDS TIME TO
RESPOND AND WE'LL DO THAT IN A
WEEK
.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON JUST
WANTED TO THANK ADMINISTRATOR
DOWNEY I RECOGNIZED I DID SEND
THOSE OVER.
I THOUGHT IT WAS A LOT BUT UM I
SENT THOSE OVER THIS MORNING
AND I WORK I WORKED ON IT OVER
THE WEEKEND.
SO THANK YOU FOR, UM, WORKING
ON GETTING THE ANSWERS TO THOSE
I'LL BE INTERESTED TO HEAR.
THANK YOU.
EVEN THE FACT THAT WE WILL NOT
HAVE ANSWERS TO THESE FOR ABOUT
A WEEK IS THEIR INTEREST IN
POSTPONING THIS ITEM TO OUR
NEXT AGENDA.
NO WE CAN PROCEED.
I MEAN ANY FURTHER COMMENT OR
DISCUSSION?
I'LL HAVE TO POSTPONE IT TO I
MOVED BY COUNSEL MY REASONS TO
POSTPONE THEIR SECOND COUNCIL
MEMBER IRE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE POSTPONEMENT TO THE NEXT
MEETING?
YES.
OH NO I WON'T BE HERE.
I'LL STILL MOVE TO POSTPONE IT.
I FEEL LIKE AS A COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON'S QUESTIONS ARE
WORTHWHILE AND I'M SURE SHE'S
NOT ALONE IN WONDERING AND
HAVING THAT INFORMATION
AVAILABLE TO TO US AT THE TABLE
AND TO COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
UM, THANK YOU FOR FOR BRINGING
THEM UP.
I'M SORRY I WON'T BE HERE TO
HEAR THE ANSWERS BUT I AM VERY,
VERY CURIOUS TO SEE WHAT THE
RESULTS ARE.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THE
POSTPONEMENT, ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF POSTPONING C SIXTEEN
TO OUR NEXT MEETING SAY I KNOW
YOUR POST THE POSTPONEMENT
PARCEL'S
NO PUBLIC HEARINGS,
PUBLIC HEARINGS PUBLIC NO LESS
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC TO SEEK
OUT A PUBLIC HEARING.
YOU MUST NOT ADVANCE YOUR
COMMENTS ON THE TOPIC THE
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO SEE SO PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO OUR
POLITICAL OTHER SPEAKERS ON
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN OUR TIME WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR OUR
PUBLIC HEARING THIS EVENING IS
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION ONE
207 OF CHAPTER EIGHT OF THE
CITY CODE .
IS ANYONE HERE TONIGHT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
>> YOU WILL GIVE IT A SECOND IF
ANYBODY IS CALLING IN
THEIR
CALLERS ON ZOOME WHO WANT TO
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
MAYOR PRO TEM I DON'T HAVE ANY
CALLERS ONLINE SEEING NO ON
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE NOW COME TO APPROVAL OF THE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES YOU
HAVE BEFORE YOU THE REGULAR
SESSION MINUTES OF JULY 17TH
TWENTY TWENTY THREE MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH ANY
DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR ANY
POST PASSES
WE NOW COME TO BE
ONE AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND
SECTION ONE TO SEVEN OF CHAPTER
EIGHT OF THE CITY
MOVED BY
COUNCILOR BRIGGS THE SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER BREAKS?
JUST AS A REMINDER THIS IS A
SMALL TWEAK TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
BYLAWS THAT WOULD REMOVE THE
REQUIREMENT FOR ONE MEMBER THAT
ONE MEMBER OF THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION BE AN
OWNER OF A TRANSPORTATION
BUSINESS OPERATING IN ANN ARBOR
.
THIS BASICALLY THIS IS BECAUSE
IT WAS DIFFICULT TO FILL THAT
POSITION.
SO I'M TRYING TO PROVIDE MORE
OPPORTUNITY ON THAT COMMISSION
FOR FOLKS WHO ARE INTERESTED
PLEASE APPLY.
BUT THIS WAS MADE LAST FALL AT
THE RECOMMENDATION
OF TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
WHEN I WAS SERVING ON AS
LIAISON COUNCILOR AND I
COULDN'T AS LIAISON NO THANK
YOU COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON
THANK YOU.
IN LINE WITH THE FEDERAL
EMPHASIS ON SENIORS AGING IN
PLACE, OUR COMMITMENT TO
EXCLUSIVITY DEMANDS THAT EVERY
VOICE IN OUR COMMUNITY IS GIVEN
A PLATFORM I'VE DISCERNED A GAP
IN THE ORDINANCE WHICH
ESTABLISHES THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION WHILE IT MAINTAINS
THE PARTICIPATION OF SEVEN
PUBLIC MEMBERS, THERE IS A
POTENTIAL OVERSIGHT.
THERE'S A DOZEN DESIGNATED SEAT
FOR SOMEONE FIFTY FIVE YEARS OR
OLDER GIVEN THAT THE RIDE
PROVIDES PASSES FOR THOSE AGED
SIXTY AND ABOVE IN LIGHT
OF EIGHTY IS CUT BACK ON SAME
DAY PARATRANSIT SERVICES
EFFICIENTLY HINDERING THEM FROM
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENTS UNEXPECTED
MEDICAL VISITS AND CONTRIBUTING
TO CAR EMISSION REDUCTIONS.
IT'S PARAMOUNT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT AKIN TO INDIVIDUALS WITH
DISABILITIES, SENIORS POSSESS
DISTINCT TRANSPORTATION DEMANDS
.
THESE INCLUDE ADAPTIVE AND
EASILY ACCESSIBLE ACTIVE
MOBILITY SERVICES ESPECIALLY AS
THE CITY MOVES FORWARD TOWARD
MORE ACTIVE MOBILITY
INITIATIVES.
ADDITIONALLY, THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR IS PROACTIVE ENGAGEMENT
IN DRIVING SENIORS TO SETTLE
HERE EXTENSION THIS OVERSIGHT.
THEIR CONTRIBUTION CAN OFFER
INVALUABLE INSIGHTS PAVING THE
WAY FOR A PUBLIC TRANSIT SYSTEM
THAT IS MORE USER FRIENDLY FOR
ALL AGE BRACKET ENSURING THE
REPRESENTATION CAN HELP US GAIN
A DEEPER UNDERSTANDING OF THEIR
NEEDS AND LEAD TO IMPROVEMENTS
IN OUR TRANSPORTATION FRAMEWORK
.
I PROPOSE THAT WE REVISE THE
BYLAWS TO RESERVE AT LEAST ONE
SEAT FOR A COMMUNITY MEMBER WHO
IS FIFTY FIVE YEARS OR OLDER.
THIS STEP WILL ENSURE THE
INCORPORATION OF THE UNIQUE
PERSPECTIVE AND REQUIREMENTS
OF OUR SENIOR COMMUNITY IN OUR
TRANSPORTATION POLICIES AND
SERVICES.
THIS IS WHY I MOVE TO SO WITH
THIS WITH THESE CONSIDERATIONS
I MOVE TO POSTPONE THE
DISCUSSION TO SEPTEMBER 18TH.
THIS INTERLUDE WILL GRANT THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
ADEQUATE TIME FOR DELIBERATION
FEEDBACK SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN IS A DISCUSSION
OF THE POSTPONEMENT ON SOME
ABRASH JUST TO CHIME IN THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSIONERS
MEETING NEXT WEDNESDAY THE 16TH
AND SO I THINK THAT SHOULD GIVE
US AMPLE TIME.
THANK YOU COUNCILOR BRIGGS, I
APPRECIATE COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON'S RECOMMENDATION ON
THIS.
I THINK THE POINTS THAT YOU
BROUGHT UP WERE SOLID ABOUT WHY
WE MIGHT WOULD CONSIDER THAT
ONE PIECE THEY MIGHT ASK THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION TO
CONSIDER AS WE'RE WE'RE DOING
THAT AS A I KNOW THAT WE HAVE
BEEN OFTEN OVERREPRESENTED BY
OLDER VOICES IN TERMS OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENT WE'VE RECEIVED
AND SOMETIMES ON COMMISSIONS
AND SO SOMETHING JUST TO
CONSIDER IN TERMS OF HAVING
DESIGNATED SEATS.
I CAN UNDERSTAND HOW THAT MIGHT
BE BENEFICIAL IN THIS SPECIFIC
CASE BUT SOMETHING TO BE
THINKING ABOUT FOR THE
COMMISSION ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON, I
MIGHT ADD THAT I I WOULD LOVE
TO SEE THIS BE A PERSON
OF COLOR WHO'S OVER FIFTY FIVE.
I DON'T I MEAN THAT'S JUST KIND
OF I JUST NEED TO SAY IT SO I
MEAN I DON'T KNOW PERHAPS YOU
GUYS YOU KNOW AT YOUR MEETING
YOU CAN JUST KIND OF DISCUSS
THAT AS WELL.
I DON'T I GUESS I'M JUST THAT'S
JUST ME WEIGHING IN.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE UM PERSON
OF COLOR WHO'S OVER FIFTY FIVE
BUT I THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
IT.
IT'S NOT JUST THAT'S COUNCIL
MEMBER TIZIANA.
I JUST WANT TO AGREE AND SAY
ALSO I APPRECIATE COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRIS HARRISON YOU
POINTING OUT THAT FIFTY FIVE
PLUS YEARS IS DISTINCTLY
DIFFERENT FROM SOMEONE WHO HAS
A DISABILITY REGARDLESS
OF WHERE THEY ARE IN THEIR AGE.
SO THEIR SPECIFIC AND SO I
THINK IT'S A WORTHWHILE
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU.
I THINK WHAT WE ARE ALSO
HEARING IS A CALL FOR CITIZENS
TO APPLY TO SERVE ON YOUR
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
WE ARE OFTEN LOOKING FOR NEW
MEMBERS TO JOIN SO PLEASE
REMEMBER THAT THAT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE YOUR
COMMUNITY ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION A ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF POSTPONING TO SEPTEMBER
EIGHTEENTH ALL OF THOSE OPPOSED
THE MOTION IS APPROVED SEE ONE
ORDINANCE AMEND THE ZONING MAP
BEING A PART OF SECTION FIVE
TEN THAT TWO OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MOVED BY A COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON.
THEIR DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
STATION.
Q SO WE ARE ASKED TO REZONE TEN
LOTS THAT TOTAL ONE POINT SIXTY
SIX ACRES WHICH ARE LOCATED
SOUTH OF E STADIUM BOULEVARD
BETWEEN SOUTH STATE STREET AND
SOUTH INDUSTRIAL BOULEVARD IN
THE CENTRAL PART OF THE CITY
PROXIMATE TO CAMPUS.
WE'RE ASKED TO MAKE THE
REZONING FROM THE CURRENT
ZONING DESIGNATION OF OUR
FORESE TO SEE WHAT THEY ARE
WITH CONDITIONS.
THIS WILL ALLOW CONSIDERABLY
GREATER DENSITY ON THESE
PARCELS WHICH ARE CURRENTLY
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND IT
WILL ALLOW CONSTRUCTION OF TWO
MULTISTORY TOWERS FOR A MIXED
USE BUILDING TOTALING TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY SQUARE FEET
THAT WILL PROVIDE APPROXIMATELY
TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTEEN
APARTMENTS AND INCLUDE GROUND
FLOOR RETAIL OFFICE AND CHILD
CARE SPACE.
I WOULD LIKE TO MAKE IT CLEAR
THAT THE CITY'S APPROVAL
OF SOUTHTOWN WOULD NOT OBLIGATE
US TO APPROVE FUTURE
APPLICATIONS FOR C1 R ZONING IN
THAT AREA AND IT WOULD NOT OPEN
THE DOOR FOR A FLOOD OF STAIRS
IN THAT AREA.
ZONING IS CONSIDERED ON A SIDE
BY SIDE BASIS.
IF ALL THINGS WERE EQUAL ON A
FUTURE ZONING PETITION, IF OUR
APPROVAL THIS DECISION WOULD
MAKE A COMPELLING ARGUMENT FOR
APPROVAL AND A FUTURE CASE BUT
IT WOULD NOT FORCE OUR HAND
EVEN IN SIMILAR GEOGRAPHIES THE
ATTRIBUTES OF A REZONING ARE
RARELY IDENTICAL FROM PETITION
TO PETITION.
SO WHEN THIS PETITION CAME
BEFORE PLANNING COMMISSION WE
HEARD STRONG SUPPORT AND WE
HEARD SOME STRONG SUPPORT
EARLIER TONIGHT BECAUSE THERE
IS CONSIDERABLE EXCITEMENT FOR
THE PROPOSED PROJECT.
IT IS AN INNOVATIVE ALL
ELECTRIC PROJECT WITH ROOFS
ROOFTOP SOLAR TO REDUCE ITS
CARBON FOOTPRINT AND GEOTHERMAL
HEATING AND COOLING.
IF ALL GOES WELL IT WILL BE THE
FIRST TALL MASS TIMBER
CONSTRUCTION IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
THERE ARE SOME STATE GUIDELINES
THAT I THINK STILL NEED TO BE
WORKED THROUGH AROUND THAT THIS
IS A BUILDING STRUCTURE THAT
WILL THAT CONTINUOUSLY STORES
CARBON AND WILL STORE
APPROXIMATELY SEVENTEEN HUNDRED
AND FORTY METRIC TONS OF CARBON
WHICH IF YOU WERE WONDERING IS
EQUIVALENT TO OVER FOUR MILLION
MILES DRIVEN BY GAS POWERED
CARS.
SO THAT'S A LOT THIS PROJECT
DOES NOT COME TO AS OPPOSED
BECAUSE THAT WOULD NOT BE
CORRECT.
THERE IS AN APPROPRIATE ZONING
CATEGORY FOR IT IN OUR CODE AND
THAT WE SEE WHEN THEY ARE THE
DEVELOPER OFFERED FOUR
CONDITIONS THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT
FOR THE FOR THIS FOR THESE
BUILDINGS WILL BE ONE HUNDRED
FEET C WHEN I R HAS NO HEIGHT
LIMIT.
SO THAT'S A SIGNIFICANT
RESTRICTION THAT IS BEING
OFFERED THE MAXIMUM NUMBER
OF VEHICLE PARKING SPACES FOR
RESIDENTIAL USE ON THE PROPERTY
WILL BE ZERO POINT TWENTY FIVE
PER DWELLING UNIT WHICH IS LOW
AND WE LIKE THAT OR WE HAVE
EXPRESSED A LIKING FOR THAT.
THE PRINCIPAL USE OF THE
PROPERTY SHALL BE MULTIPLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND NO MORE
THAN THIRTY PERCENT OF THE
DWELLING UNITS MAY BE SHORT
TERM RENTALS.
FINALLY THE PROPERTY SHALL HAVE
NO NATURAL GAS CONNECTIONS
EXCEPT FOR EMERGENCY BACKUP
POWER.
ALL BUT THE THIRD OF THESE THE
ONE ABOUT THIRTY PERCENT ONLY
FOR COMMERCIAL USE OR RATHER
SHORT TERM RENTALS RENTALS I'M
SORRY ALL BUT THAT ONE WAS PART
WE'RE PART OF THE SITE PLAN
THAT THE DEVELOPERS BROUGHT TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION SO THEY
WERE WILLING TO OFFER THESE
CONDITIONS
AND THE CONDITIONS
WILL BE BINDING ON ANY PROJECT
THAT'S BUILT ON THIS SITE.
THANK YOU.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER?
I WON'T GO THROUGH THE LITANY
OF EXCITING ASPECTS OF THIS
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL FIDESZ FOR DOING THAT
FOR US.
I JUST WANT TO SAY AS FOURTH
WARD COUNCIL MEMBER I'M REALLY
EXCITED TO SEE THIS GO FORWARD
AND LOOKING FORWARD TO VOTING
FOR IT TONIGHT.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION, ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR AND OPPOSE IT IS
APPROVED C TO AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTIONS FIVE ONE FIVE
FIVE THAT ONE SIX AND FIVE THAT
ONE SEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR MOVED SEVEN
BRITISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IHR IS THERE DISCUSSION
ON MEMBER BRITISH?
I'D BE HAPPY TO LET COUNCILOR
BRIGGS GO FIRST IF SHE WANTS
TO.
OK I'M SORRY I KNOW YOU GUYS
ARE GETTING TIRED OF ME.
UM SO THESE ARE THESE
MODIFICATIONS TO T.S. ONE ARE A
FIRST INSTALLMENT ON A REQUEST
THE COUNCIL MADE OF PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THEY PERMIT TWO NEW USES WITH
SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMISSION OR
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE APPROVAL
AND THAT IS AUTOMOBILE
MOTORCYCLE RECREATION, VEHICLE
EQUIPMENT SALES AND RENTAL AND
AUTOMOBILE TRUCK AND
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT REPAIR
COUNCIL HAD ASKED FOR
PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO REPAIR.
IT COMES BACK TO US INCLUDING
SALES IN RECOGNITION THAT AUTO
REPAIR IS OFTEN EVEN TYPICALLY
ATTACHED TO RETAIL AND IT COMES
BACK WITH AUTO WITH RETAIL AS
WELL AS REPAIR IN THE
CONFIDENCE THAT THE FORM BASED
STANDARDS OF TSAY ONE MAKE IT
SAFE TO PERMIT LIMITED
AUTOMOBILE RELATED USES.
SO OUR SETBACKS OTHER
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY FEATURES
AND ESPECIALLY THE LIMITATIONS
ON SURFACE PARKING BUT PLANNING
COMMISSION VOTED TO MAKE IT A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE BECAUSE
IT WILL GIVE US AN OPPORTUNITY
TO HAVE A GOOD LOOK AT ANY SITE
PLAN THAT COMES FORWARD FOR A
FACILITY SUCH AS THIS ONE.
UM, IN ADDITION THE STORAGE AND
REPAIR OF AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS
AND CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT HAS
TO BE LOCATED IN AN ENCLOSED
BUILDING.
UM, NOW I UNDERSTAND THE
OBJECTIONS THAT WERE RAISED AND
I THINK IT IS CERTAINLY WORTH
DELIBERATING THEM AND I KNOW
THAT WE CAN START THAT TONIGHT
AND DO IT AGAIN.
BUT I WANT TO SAY THAT WITHOUT
MAKING THIS CHANGE EXISTS, AUTO
RELATED USES ON THE CORRIDORS
BECOME NONCONFORMING AND THAT
MEANS THAT THEY WILL KIND OF BE
FROZEN IN AMBER.
THEY THEY WILL NOT BE
SIGNIFICANTLY UPDATED UNTIL
THEY SIMPLY BECOME OBSOLETE AND
PASS OUT OF SERVICE.
THIS CHANGE GIVES EXISTING AUTO
RELATED USES CONFORMING STATUS
WHICH OPENS THE POSSIBILITY
THAT THEY CAN APPLY FOR UPDATES
THAT ARE BETTER ALIGNED WITH T
ONE FORMS THAN THEIR CURRENT
FORM IS.
MOST OF THE OTHER CHANGES ARE
FOR CLARITY AND TO REDUCE
CONFUSION.
SO I'M NOT GOING TO TALK ABOUT
THOSE AND IF YOU HAVE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS YOU SHOULD RAISE THEM
UP ON SOME NO BRAKES.
THANKS.
AND JUST AS A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND FOR FOLKS WHO MAY
NOT BE FAMILIAR WITH WHAT YOU
SEE, ONE IS IT WAS A RELATIVELY
NEW ZONING CATEGORY THAT WE'VE
DEVELOPED THE CITY THAT'S
TRANSIT CORRIDOR PLANNING WHICH
IS AIMED AT INCREASING THE
DENSITY ALONG OUR MAJOR TRANSIT
CORRIDORS RECORD.
THIS IS ONE OF THE PIECES THAT
WE RECOGNIZE THAT WE NEED
VASTLY MUCH MORE HOUSING IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND IT IS ONE
OF THE TOOLS WE NEED MANY TOOLS
BUT IN INCREASING SUPPLY
HOPEFULLY WE CAN AT LEAST
STABILIZE PRICES IN TERMS
OF COST IN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO THAT WAS ONE OF THE PIECES
OF REALLY TRYING TO IMAGINE
REIMAGINE OUR SOME OF OUR
COMMERCIAL CORRIDORS STATE AND
EISENHOWER WAS THE FIRST
CORRIDOR THAT OWNED STADIUM
AREA IS A SECOND AND THAT WAS
DONE LAST FALL WHEN THAT WAS
DUNS STADIUM MAPLES IN THE
FIFTH WARD.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT CAME
THAT IS THAT THAT IS ALREADY A
VERY SUCCESSFUL MIXED USE
COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR AND ONE
OF THE THE PIECES THAT WE HEARD
DURING THAT AND ONE OF THE
REASONS THAT COUNCIL
UNANIMOUSLY RECOMMENDED THE
PLANNING COMMISSION COME BACK
AND MAKE A FEW TWEAKS TO THE
ORDINANCE WAS BECAUSE WE
RECOGNIZE THAT WHILE WE ARE
LOOKING TO ENHANCE HAVE A MUCH
LESS CAR CENTRIC COMMUNITY IN
THE FUTURE, WE RECOGNIZE THE
NEEDS FOR THAT.
THERE ARE TIMES THAT WE MIGHT
WANT TO HAVE WE ESSENTIALLY
STILL WANT MIXED USE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THAT'S A GOAL IN OUR EIGHT TO
ZERO PLAN STRATEGY FOR ACTION
SIX IS TO DEVELOP MIXED USE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND SO ON.
THAT PIECE THE CAR RENTAL SALE
I THINK IT MAKES SENSE THAT
WE'RE HAVING TO ADDRESS IT AS A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE OBVIOUSLY
I DON'T REALLY WANT TO SEE ANY
MORE CAR DEALERSHIPS THERE BUT
AS WE'RE ASKING FOLKS TO LIVE,
CARLYE LIFESTYLES HAVING ACCESS
TO CAR RENTALS IN CLOSE
PROXIMITY TO WHERE THEY LIVE IN
THE FUTURE WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR
ALLOWING THEM TO LIVE LIKE
LIFESTYLES.
SECONDARILY ON THE CAR REPAIR
PIECE OF THINGS, YOU KNOW IT IS
NOT NECESSARILY IF WE LIMIT
THESE FROM OUR FROM OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
WHAT WE'RE ASKING IS FOR FOLKS
BASICALLY FOR THEM TO MOVE TO
THE TOWNSHIPS AND THAT THEN
FOLKS ARE DRIVING THEIR CARS
OUT TO THE TOWNSHIPS AND NOT
ABLE TO WALK HOME TO THEIR
HOMES.
SO THERE ARE SOME ADDITIONAL
BENEFITS THERE ALSO FOR TRYING
TO BUILD MORE HOMES FOR FOLKS.
MAYBE WE SHOULDN'T ASK THEM TO
DRIVE OUT OF THERE OUT OF THE
CITY TO TO GET TO A JOB.
SO THAT WAS SOME OF THE
RATIONALE BEHIND IT.
I DID HAVE ONE QUESTION FOR
STAFF IN TERMS OF THE CHANGES
THAT WERE MADE AND THAT WAS A
QUESTION AROUND THE ENCLOSURE
FOR HER REPAIRS.
IS THERE A STAFF MEMBER THAT IS
AVAILABLE TO ANSWER A QUESTION?
>> MR. TONY
, THAT LEONARD IS ON
ZOM MR. IT WILL ADDRESS YOUR
QUESTION.
THANKS.
I'LL WAIT TILL IT GETS ON
TASKET JUST SO HE ALWAYS IS
ABOUT THAT FIDELMA COMPUTER
SCREEN.
SO THE QUESTION THAT I HAVE IS
JUST IN TERMS OF THE CHANGES
THAT ARE BEING MADE, WILL THAT
ALLOW FOR CAR REPAIR BEFORE OR
AFTER A CAR'S REPAIRED?
WOULD ITS NEED TO BE COULD IT
BE PARKED IN AN ADJACENT
PARKING SPACE OR WOULD THAT CAR
NEED TO BE KEPT WITHIN THE
FACILITY BEFORE AND AFTER
REPAIR WOULD HAVE TO BE KEPT IN
THE FACILITY THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ORDNANCE THAT'S
INSIDE.
YOU SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED THAT
ONLY THE REPAIR OF THE STORAGE
OF THOSE VEHICLES HAVE TO BE
MAINTAINED IN AN ENCLOSED
BUILDING THAT WAS A STANDARD
THAT WAS PREVIOUSLY APPLIED TO
OUR C TO BE COMMERCIAL ZONING
DISTRICT FOR SIMILAR USES.
THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE CARRIES
THAT FORWARD TO THE DC ONE THAT
ADDS A LITTLE BIT.
IT ADDS ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS
IN THAT REGARD ON TOP OF THE
ALREADY FORM BASED RESTRICTIONS
OF THE DC ONE DISTRICT AND IS
ALL PARKING REQUIRED TO BE IN
COUNCIL MEMBER?
OUR TIME HAS EXPIRED THANKS NEW
WOULD COME.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER MAY I ASK MR. LEONARD IF
ALL PARKING IN TAXI ONE IS
REQUIRED TO BE ENCLOSED?
IS THAT YOUR QUESTION?
YEAH I THINK COUNCIL MEMBERS
DIS AND BRIGS IT IS IT IS NOT
THE TAXI ONE DOES REQUIRE
SURFACE PARKING BUT IT LIMITS
THE SURFACE PARKING TO BE NO
LARGER THAN ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
OF THE BUILDING FOOTPRINT OR
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE BUILDING
DEPENDING ON THE LOT SIZE
PARKING ABOVE THAT THAT IS
STILL BELOW THE OVERALL MAXIMUM
PARKING OF ONE THREE HUNDRED
AND THIRTY THREE SQUARE FEET TO
USE WOULD HAVE TO BE ENCLOSED
IN A BUILDING OR IN A STRUCTURE
ON TOP OF THAT.
SO JUST TO CLARIFY SEE ONE DOES
ALLOW SURFACE PARKING BUT IT IS
LIMITED LIMITED IT IS LIMITED
TO THE MOST PRETTY MUCH THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING
LARGELY RIGHT.
AND SO THERE WOULD BE SOME
POSSIBILITY OF A I MEAN BUT BUT
STORAGE AND REPAIR
OF AUTOMOBILES WOULD HAVE TO BE
AN ENCLOSED SPACE EVEN THOUGH
THERE CAN BE A CAN BE VEHICULAR
PARKING FOR EMPLOYEE IS FOR
CUSTOMERS COMING AND GOING.
BUT THE RESTRICTION WOULD
REQUIRE THAT THE ACTUAL
VEHICLES BEING A PART BE IN AN
ENCLOSED SPACE.
I DO WANT TO MAKE IT CLEAR THAT
ZONING IS PERSPECTIVE SO KEEP
IN MIND THAT'S GOING TO APPLY
TO NEW USES THAT ARE
ESTABLISHED UNDER THESE
PARAMETERS AND THAT'S WHAT MR.
MEMBER OF THE THANK YOU.
SO IT'S SOMEONE THAT
CO-SPONSORED THE COUNCIL
RESOLUTION THAT LED TO THIS
WORK.
I GUESS I WANT TO EXTEND MY
APPRECIATION FOR THE WORK THAT
WENT INTO THIS BUT I ALSO FEEL
THE NEED TO EXPLAIN WHY I WON'T
BE SUPPORTING THAT FIRST
READING TONIGHT.
I DO KNOW FIRSTHAND THAT CAR
RENTAL CAN SERVE AS AN
IMPORTANT ELEMENT IN THE CAR
FREE OR CAR LIGHT HOUSEHOLD BUT
I DON'T REALLY SEE THE NEED TO
OPEN THE GATES TO ADDITIONAL
CAR DEALERSHIPS NEED ZONES EVEN
BY SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE THOSE
THAT ARE THERE NOW CAN STAY
THEY CAN CONTINUE TO OPERATE
INDEFINITELY.
I THINK AS WE'VE DISCUSSED
AND
I JUST DON'T REALLY SEE A
COMPELLING NEED TO OPEN THE
DOOR TO NEW STRUCTURES
DEDICATED TO THIS PURPOSE.
TO BE PERFECTLY HONEST, LIVING
OFF THE STADIUM I'M REMINDED ON
AN ALMOST DAILY BASIS OF SUCH
AN AUTO CENTRIC BUSINESS AND
HOW DIFFICULT IT SEEMS TO
RETROFIT IT FOR OTHER USES.
SO THAT'S WHY I WON'T BE
SUPPORTING THIS TONIGHT AND
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS.
YEAH, SO I WOULD LIKE TO
PROPOSE AN AMENDMENT TO THE
DRAFT ORDINANCE WHICH IS ON
SECTION TWO SUBSECTION C ONE I
WOULD LIKE TO STRIKE A.S. ONE
AND THEN THE REDS WHICH WOULD
ESSENTIALLY ELIMINATE THE
INCLUSION OF THE REQUIREMENT
THAT THE STORAGE AND REPAIR
OF AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MUST BE
LOCATED IN AN ENCLOSED BUILDING
.
THIS IS THE ONLY THIS WOULD BE
THE ONLY SITUATION FOR THAT
WOULD REQUIRE.
SO YEAH, I ACTUALLY I COULD
JUST WANT TO STRIKE THE STORAGE
COMPONENT.
LET ME GO BACK I'M SORRY I I
NEED TO GO BACK AND STRIKE WHAT
I WANT MY PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
ACTUALLY SORRY I NEED TO THINK
THIS OUT MORE WHAT I'M ACTUALLY
PROPOSING SO I JUST WANT TO IN
SECTION TWO SUBSECTION C PART
ONE STRIKE STORAGE AND AND
HAVING THAT PERTAIN TO GC ONE
DISTRICTS I GUESS COUNCIL
MEMBER CAN YOU ALSO PUT THAT IN
WRITING TO A CLERK.
YES THAT SEEMS REASONABLE.
IS EVERYONE CLEAR WHERE WE ARE
IN THE ORDINANCE?
IS THERE A SECOND O
I GUESS THE
POINT OF INFORMATION SO IS THE
INTENT HERE YOU'RE SAYING
STRIKE STORAGE THE INTENT IS
ONLY TO SAY REPAIR
OF AUTOMOBILES TRUCKS SO SO THE
IDEA IS THAT FOR EXAMPLE AN
AUTO MECHANIC COULD LEAVE OUT A
CAR THEY ARE ACTIVELY REPAIRING
BUT THEY COULDN'T OR IS THAT
THAT'S JUST SO THE INTENT
OF THIS WOULD BE I THINK IT'S
QUITE TYPICAL IF YOU THINK
ABOUT GOING TO A CAR REPAIR FOR
CAR REPAIR WHEN YOU GO IN,
OFTENTIMES WHAT YOU FIND IS
THAT WHEN YOU GO TO PICK UP
YOUR CAR IT HAS BEEN PARKED IN
THE PARKING LOT WAITING FOR YOU
AND THAT'S WHERE YOU DROP IT
OFF AS WELL.
IT'S VERY ATYPICAL FOR YOU TO
HAVE TO TAKE YOUR CAR AND HAVE
IT GO INSIDE THE BUILDING THE
ENTIRE TIME.
>> AND SO THIS WOULD BE A
FAIRLY ATYPICAL APPROACH.
>> I CAN UNDERSTAND BUT THAT'S
WHAT I'M PROPOSING.
ALL RIGHT.
IS THERE A SECOND TO THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENT SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH?
UH, DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENT
SORRY COUNCIL MEMBER DAVE.
THE ONLY THING THAT IS A LITTLE
COMPLICATED IS THE WAY THIS
CONDITION WAS APPLIED WAS WITH
REFERENCE TO ANOTHER SECTION IN
THE CODE .
SO IT'S SO IT REPLICATES A
RESTRICTION THAT APPLIES IN C
TO B AND SO THIS HAS TO BE
REWRITTEN.
BUT I'M ASSUMING THAT STAFF CAN
DO THAT LATER KNOWING THE
INTENT
.
PERHAPS WE SHOULD POSE THAT
QUESTION TO STAFF PLEASE.
LET'S TAKE THAT SURMISE AS A
QUESTION TO STAFF.
MR. LEONARD IS YES.
SO I DON'T THAT'S THE ONE
OF THE PURPOSES OF FIRST
READING IS TO MAKE SURE THIS
ORDINANCE GETS INTO THE
APPROPRIATE CONFIGURATION AND
LANGUAGE THAT YOU WANT TO SHARE
WITH THE COMMUNITY IN ADVANCE
OF THE SECOND READING AND
PUBLIC HEARING I THINK TO
COUNCIL MEMBER DISHES POINT
THIS IS IT'S GOING TO HAVE AN
IMPACT ON NOT ONLY THE ONE
DISTRICT BUT ALSO THE C TO THE
DISTRICT BUT IT IS THE SAME
SECTION THAT'S REFERENCED SO I
REALLY DON'T HAVE ANY CONCERNS
ABOUT PREPARING THIS ORDINANCE
IN ADVANCE OF SECOND READING
AND PUBLICATION.
THE IT IS IT IS IN A SECTION
OF THE CODE THAT IS REFLECTIVE
OF ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS THAT
WE APPLY IN THIS CASE TO
AUTOMOBILE TRUCK CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT REPAIR.
I DON'T THINK IT WOULD REQUIRE
A LOT OF RECONFIGURATION
OF THIS PROPOSED ORDINANCE.
SO IF THE COUNCIL IS SUPPORTIVE
OF IT, I THINK IT'S SOMETHING
WE CAN ACCOMPLISH BEFORE
SECONDARY.
IS THERE FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE AMENDMENTS?
UM, I GUESS I HAVE A QUESTION
SO IF I'M READING THIS
CORRECTLY, MR. LEONARD, IF
STORAGE AND WERE REMOVED FROM
SECTION C SECTION TO SEE ONE,
WOULD THAT THEN ALLOW FOR A NEW
TRUCK CAR CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT REPAIR BUSINESS TO
OPEN AND CREATE THEY WOULD
STILL HAVE TO FOLLOW THE THE
STIPULATIONS AROUND PARKING
MAXIMUMS OUT DOORS, CORRECT?
RIGHT.
OK, ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION
ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE AMENDMENT
TO CORRECT ANY POST THE
AMENDMENT PASSES BACK TO A
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
THERE FOR DISCUSSION.
THEN WE WILL DO A ROLL CALL
VOTE STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER GHAZI EDMAN.
YES, DARRAWEIT YEAH.
OH SORRY COUNCIL MEMBER GUYS
HAD ONE AND NOW YES VOTE FOR
TAYLOR ABSENT COUNCIL MEMBER IA
NO NO ACKMANN NO.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS YES CUSTOMER
KORNEL ABSENT COUNCILOR DISH
YES COUNCILOR HARRISON YES.
COUNCILOR SONG YES.
COUNCILOR WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES.
MOTION CARRIES C THREE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE CHAPTER
ONE HUNDRED SIX HOME ENERGY
RATING DISCLOSURE TITLE EIGHT
BUILDING REGULATIONS OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON.
IS THERE DISCUSSION OF THE
COUNCIL MEMBER BRINGS UP AND I
BELIEVE ACTUALLY THERE'S A
STAFF PRODUCTION ON THIS AS
WELL SORRY COUNCIL MEMBER RIGS
PLEASE HOLD.
I BELIEVE MR SMITH IS ON THE
LINE TO DO THE INTRODUCTION
.
AM I ON?
YOU ARE RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ZACH WAS SMITH.
I AM A MANAGER IN THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION.
I'M PLEASED TO PRESENT TO YOU
TO HER AUDIENCE TONIGHT OR TO
REPRESENT IT BRIEFLY THE HERD
AUDIENCE WOULD IN SHORT REQUIRE
THAT HOMES IN ANN ARBOR ACQUIRE
A HOME ENERGY SCORE PRIOR TO
BEING LISTED FOR SALE.
THE GOALS OF THIS REQUIREMENT
ARE TO ENHANCE CONSUMER
PROTECTIONS BY PROVIDING
INFORMATION ABOUT THE FULL
COSTS OF OPERATING A HOME PRIOR
TO PURCHASE AND TO PROVIDE A
CLEAR PATHWAY TO SAFER,
HEALTHIER, MORE COMFORTABLE AND
MORE EFFICIENT HOMES INTO SOME
.
IN ADDITION TO SOME OF THE
RESPONSES THAT WE'VE ALREADY
PROVIDED TO YOUR QUESTIONS, I
WILL RESPOND TO SOME QUESTIONS
DIRECTLY ASKED AS A PART
OF THIS STAFF INTRODUCTION.
SO QUESTION ONE HOW THIS
ORDINANCE NEGATIVELY IMPACT
HOMEOWNERS WHO ARE LOWER INCOME
OR DON'T HAVE DISCRETIONARY
INCOME?
WHAT MITIGATION MEASURES ARE IN
PLACE TO ENSURE THAT FURTHER
DISPLACEMENT OF BLACK AND OTHER
ETHNIC MINORITIES WITHIN THE
CITY DO NOT OCCUR AS A RESULT
OF THIS ORDINANCE?
A FEW THINGS TO NOTE IN
RESPONSE TO THIS FIRST, AS I
MENTIONED, ONE OF THE PRIMARY
GOALS OF THE HERD ORDINANCE IS
TO HELP PROTECT HOMEBUYERS FROM
UNEXPECTED ENERGY COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH INEFFICIENT
HOMES.
FAMILIES WHO FACE ENERGY BURDEN
SPEND MORE THAN SIX PERCENT
OF THEIR INCOME ON ENERGY.
AND IN MICHIGAN, LOW INCOME
RESIDENTS SPEND ON AVERAGE
FIFTEEN PERCENT OF THEIR INCOME
ON ENERGY BILLS.
THESE HOUSEHOLDS ARE
DISPROPORTIONATELY LOW INCOME
FAMILIES WITH CHILDREN BLACK,
INDIGENOUS OR PEOPLE OF COLOR
AND SENIORS.
SO BY REQUIRING HOME SELLERS TO
DISCLOSE THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY
OF THEIR HOMES, IT CAN PROTECT
HOMEBUYERS FROM PURCHASING A
HOME THAT THEY WOULD
OTHERWISE
BE BEYOND THEIR MEANS TO HEAT
AND COOL.
SECONDLY, THE ORDINANCE DOES
NOT REQUIRE A CERTAIN SCORE TO
BE ACHIEVED.
THIS ORDINANCE IS NOT A
PERFORMANCE STANDARD BUT
INSTEAD IT REQUIRES THAT A
SCORE BE OBTAINED.
EVEN SO, INFORMATION GATHERED
FROM THE HOME ENERGY SCORE CAN
BE USED TO APPLY FOR CITY
PROGRAMS TO HELP MAKE STRATEGIC
IMPROVEMENTS.
THIRD, THE PROGRAM WILL OFFER
FREE HOME ENERGY SCORES VIA A
FULL TIME STAFF MEMBER AND THE
HIRING OF ADDITIONAL CAPACITY
IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR AS NEEDED
.
THIS MEANS THERE ARE NO
REQUIRED FINANCIAL COSTS TO THE
HOME SELLER FOR GETTING THE
HOME ENERGY SCORE.
AND LASTLY THE HERD ORDINANCE
AS PRESENTED TONIGHT CONTAINS
SECTION EIGHT SIX SIX WHICH IS
A WAIVER PROGRAM WHICH COULD BE
USED IF AN UNEXPECTED BURDEN OR
EVENT OCCURRED WHICH PREVENTED
SOMEBODY FROM GETTING THEIR
ENERGY SCORE QUESTION TO WHEN
THE FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR THIS
ORDINANCE WAS PERFORMED.
WAS THERE AN INVESTIGATION INTO
THE EXPERIENCE IS OF BIPAC
LOWER INCOME DISABLED AND OLDER
HOMEOWNERS AND RENTERS IN THE
CITIES WHERE SIMILAR ORDINANCES
ARE ALREADY IN PLACE?
IF SUCH AN INVESTIGATION WAS
CONDUCTED, HOW DID THE
ORDINANCE IMPACT THE BUYING,
SELLING AND RENTING EXPERIENCES
OF THESE HOMEOWNERS AND
RENTERS?
DID THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF SIMILAR ORDINANCES IN OTHER
CITIES IMPACT THE AVAILABILITY
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING STOCK AND
DOCUMENTATION BE PROVIDED TO
SUPPORT THE ANSWERS TO THESE
QUESTIONS?
THE US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
REPORT THAT ANALYZED
COMMUNITIES WHERE HOMEOWNERS
WERE REQUIRED TO SECURE ENERGY
SCORE ASSESSMENTS BEFORE
SELLING THEIR HOMES FOUND THAT
FINAL HOME PRICES WERE HALF
PERCENT HIGHER FOR EVERY ONE
POINT INCREASE IN THE D TEN
POINT HOME ENERGY SCORE SCALE.
SIMILARLY THEY FOUND THAT FINAL
HOME SALE PRICES WERE POINT
FOUR PERCENT HIGHER FOR EVERY
HUNDRED DOLLARS OF DECREASED IN
THE HOME ENERGY SCORES
ESTIMATED UTILITY BILLS.
THE OVERSIGHT STAFF DID NOT
FIND ANY REPORTS BUT
SPECIFICALLY INVESTIGATED THE
IMPACTS OF THE HOME ENERGY
SCORES ON BIPAC LOWER INCOME
DISABLED OR OLDER ADULTS.
WE DID HOWEVER MEET WITH
MULTIPLE PEERS IN OTHER
COMMUNITIES TO DISCUSS HOW THEY
CREATED SAFETY VALVES IN THEIR
PROGRAM TO ENSURE THEY WEREN'T
PLACING AN UNINTENTIONAL BURDEN
ON ESPECIALLY LOW INCOME AND
BIPAC HOUSEHOLDS.
AND THIS IS HOW WE LANDED ON
FIRST THE WAIVER PROGRAM IN THE
ORDINANCE.
SECOND, HIRING A FULL TIME
STAFF MEMBER TO OFFER THE
ASSESSMENTS FOR FREE AND THIRD
ALIGNING OUR ENERGY REBATE
PROGRAMS TO BE OFFERED THROUGH
THE COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION
MILLAGE WITH THE VARIOUS
CATEGORIES OF IMPROVEMENT
IDENTIFIED IN THE HOME ENERGY
SCORE REPORTS SUBQUESTION THREE
HOW DOES THIS HELP ANN ARBOR
HOMEOWNERS, LANDLORDS AND
DEVELOPERS PARTICIPATE IN
ATTAINABLE HOUSING FACILITIES
AT THE RESIDENTIAL HOUSING
FACILITIES AND OR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD ENTERPRISE ZONE AT
OSSI STAFF WERE NOT INVOLVED IN
THESE PROGRAMS AND GIVEN THE
LAST-MINUTE NATURE OF THIS
QUESTION WE WERE NOT ABLE TO
COORDINATE WITH OTHER
DEPARTMENTS TO GET A RESPONSE
IF COUNCIL DESIRES WE CAN
FOLLOW UP WITH COLLEAGUES IN
THE COMMUNITY SERVICES AND
OTHERS AS NEEDED TO GET A
RESPONSE.
FOR NOW THOUGH, THESE ARE NOT
PROGRAMS THE OSSI ADMINISTERS
AND THEREFORE WE'RE UNABLE TO
PROVIDE DETAIL ABOUT THE CITY'S
INVOLVEMENT.
QUESTION FOR HOW EXACTLY IS
THIS DIFFERENT FROM ENERGY
AUDIT PROGRAM?
CAN A CHART THAT INCLUDES
WHAT'S INCLUDED IN EACH AUDIT
AND THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS
TO BECOME AN AUDITOR BE
PROVIDED?
ARE THERE ANY ANN ARBOR OR
WASHOE COUNTY BASED AUDITORS OR
PROGRAM PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS
THAT TRAINED AUDITORS FOR THIS
PROGRAM?
THE DEAL WE DEVELOPED THE HOME
ENERGY SCORE AND THE HOMEOWNERS
SCORE REQUIRES VERY SPECIFIC
DATA POINTS TO BE GATHERED
DURING AN ASSESSMENT.
THE SCORE IS BASED ON THINGS
LIKE THE HOMES ENVELOPE WHICH
IS IN BASIC TERMS THE
SEPARATION BETWEEN THE INSIDE
AND THE OUTSIDE.
IT'S LIKE THE FOUNDATION THE
ROOF, THE WALLS, THE WINDOWS.
IT ALSO INCLUDES EACH HVAC
SYSTEMS AND WATER HEATING.
BASICALLY THE HIGHER THE SCORE
THE MORE EFFICIENT THE HOME.
BUT BEYOND THE SCORE, THE HOME
ENERGY SCORE REPORT INCLUDES
SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS ON HOW
TO IMPROVE THE SCORE WITH
PROJECTS THAT HAVE AN EXPECTED
PAYBACK OF 10 YEARS OR LESS
THAT ENERGY CONSULTATIONS
OFFERED BY ARE QUITE BASIC IN
COMPARISON TO THE HOME ENERGY
SCORE.
WHILE THE CONSULTATION MAY
PROVIDE SOME SIMPLE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY PRODUCTS, IT LACKS
THE DEPTH OF INFORMATION THAT
THE THAT CAN PROVIDE A
HOMEOWNER INSIGHT ON ANY MAJOR
CHANGES TO THE HOME.
AND YES, THERE ARE EXISTING
AUDITORS TRAINED TO CONDUCT
HOME ENERGY SCORE ASSESSMENTS
IN OUR COMMUNITY BEYOND THE ONE
BEING HIRED BY THE ISI AND THE
ISI IS PLANNING TO OFFER FREE
TRAINING FOR OTHER ENERGY
ASSESSORS THAT ARE INTERESTED
IN BECOMING CERTIFIED ASSESSORS
.
QUESTION FIVE WHY IS THIS
PROGRAM INSTEAD OF HELPING
OWNERS BECOME ZERO ENERGY HOMES
,WHY THIS PROGRAM INSTEAD
OF HELPING OWNERS BECOME ENERGY
HOMES THROUGH GRANTS AND NO
INTEREST OR LOW INTEREST LOANS
BASED ON INCOME?
THERE IS ALSO THE HOME
IMPROVEMENT EXPERT PROGRAM AND
CLEAN ENERGY TO COMMUNITIES
PROGRAM IN.
IN ADDITION TO THE HERD
ORDINANCE WE ARE DEVELOPING
PROGRAMS THAT WILL HELP
RESIDENTS MAKE IMPROVEMENTS IN
THEIR HOMES AND BUSINESSES.
THESE INCLUDE REBATES REBATE
PROGRAMS THAT ARE CURRENTLY
BEING DESIGNED IN THE USSI.
HOWEVER, A HOMEOWNER OR A
BUSINESS NEEDS TO KNOW WHAT
IMPROVEMENTS ARE NEEDED IN
ORDER TO MAKE A STRATEGIC
DECISION ABOUT THEIR NEXT
UPGRADE.
HAVING THE HOME ENERGY SCORE
PROVIDES THAT INFORMATION AND
CAN SIMULTANEOUSLY HELP ENSURE
THAT WE ARE DIRECTING THE
LIMITED TAXPAYER DOLLARS THAT
WE HAVE TO THE HIGHEST IMPACT
INVESTMENTS.
SO TO PUT IT ANOTHER WAY I IS
STRONGLY CONSIDERING HAVING
RESIDENTS GET A HOME ENERGY
ASSESSMENT BEFORE THEY CAN
APPLY FOR REBATES IN THIS WAY
WILL BE ABLE TO ENSURE THAT
RESIDENTS ARE GETTING MATCHED
WITH THE RIGHT INCENTIVES TO
MAKE THE BIGGEST IMPACT ON THE
BILLS THEIR HEALTH, THEIR
SAFETY AND THE CLIMATE.
WE'RE ALSO WORKING ON A HOME
ENERGY ADVISORY SERVICE TO HELP
PEOPLE MAKE MORE STRATEGIC
DECISIONS AND TO CONNECT FOLKS
WITH ADDITIONAL REBATES AND
INCENTIVES TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS
AND THOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WILL
BE BASED ON A HOME OR A
BUSINESS'S ASSESSMENT.
AND FINALLY WE WANTED TO NOTE
THAT ANN ARBOR DID WIN A CLEAN
ENERGY TO COMMUNITIES PROGRAM
AWARD WHICH IS A TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE GRANT THAT WE ARE
CURRENTLY WORKING ON IN
COLLABORATION WITH THE NATIONAL
RENEWABLE ENERGY LABORATORY.
QUESTION SIX THOUGH THE DEAL IS
SUNSETTING THEIR ENERGY STAR
PROGRAM DUE TO THE GI BILL AND
IRA PROVISIONS THE EPA LISTS
SIX UPGRADE CATEGORIES THAT
COULD BE INCENTIVIZED WOULD
COVER MOST OF THE PREVIOUS
QUESTION WHY PLACE AN EXTRA
FINANCIAL BURDEN ON HOMEOWNERS
AFTER PASSING THE TWENTY SIX
POINT EIGHT MILLION DOLLAR A
YEAR MILLAGE WHICH IS ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY MILLION DOLLARS
TOTAL THAT THEY ARE ALREADY
PAYING WHY NOT USE AN INCENTIVE
BASED ENERGY ASSESSMENT THAT
PROVIDES PROPERTY TAX CREDITS
FOR HOMEOWNERS WHO VOLUNTARILY
PERFORM A CERTIFIED ASSESSMENT
AND ONGOING CREDITS FOR THOSE
WHO IMPROVEMENTS?
THIS IS THIS IS A GOOD QUESTION
AS TO THE REQUIREMENT VERSUS AN
INCENTIVE DISCUSSION THE OSSI
IS TAKING YES AND APPROACH
WE'RE DOING BOTH WE ARE
OFFERING INCENTIVES AND WE ARE
OFFERING WE ARE SEEKING A
REQUIREMENT AND THAT IS BECAUSE
ACCORDING TO RESEARCH PUBLISHED
BY LAWRENCE BERKELEY NATIONAL
LABORATORY AND INCENTIVE BASED
PROGRAMS HAVE LITTLE TO NO
EFFECT ON THE DESIRED OUTCOMES
OF HEARD HERE LOCALLY ELBEL
EXAMINED OVER TWENTY SIX
THOUSAND HOME SALES THAT
OCCURRED AFTER RECEIVING A HOME
ENERGY FOR AND AMONG THE MANY
FINDINGS WAS THAT ONLY IN THE
CITIES WHERE THE HOME ENERGY
ASSESSMENT WAS REQUIRED TO BE
DISCLOSED AT THE TIME
OF LISTING DID THEY EXPERIENCE
A POSITIVE MARKET IMPACT PLACES
WITH VOLUNTARY HOME ENERGY FOR
ACTIVITIES SHOWED NO
STATISTICAL MARKET BENEFIT AND
WE ARE USING THE COMMUNITY
ACTION MILLAGE, THE CLIMATE
ACTION VILLAGE TO FUND THE
ENERGY SECTOR AND THE
ADDITIONAL MARKET CAPACITY TO
OFFER THESE ASSESSMENTS FOR NO
COST TO THE HOMEOWNER.
SO IN ESSENCE WE ARE USING THE
CLIMATE ACTION TO SUPPORT THIS
PROGRAM.
QUESTION SEVEN AS REAL ESTATE
ASSOCIATIONS CONTRACT OUT WITH
THIRD PARTY FOR THEIR MLS.
HAVE YOU SPOKEN WITH RAPPA
TONY?
THE COMPANY TO FIND OUT THE
LOGISTICS AND TIME FRAME
OF ADDING THIS EXTRA CATEGORY?
NO, THE OUTSIDE DID NOT SPEAK
WITH TRAPATTONI DIRECTLY BUT
INSTEAD WE USED THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS KNOWN
AS THE GREEN MLS IMPLEMENTATION
GUIDE.
THIS WAS DESIGNED TO HELP MLS
STAFF IMPLEMENT CERTAIN FIELDS
IN THE MLS THAT ARE DEDICATED
TO INFORMATION ABOUT A HOME'S
EFFICIENCY.
THIS GUIDE OFFERS TECHNICAL
BEST PRACTICES AND A WHOLE LOT
MORE TO MAKE THE PROCESS AS
SMOOTH AND AS EASY AS POSSIBLE
.
>> THANKS FOR HANGING IN THERE.
JUST A COUPLE MORE HERE.
QUESTION EIGHT WAS LAURA AUTOR
DIRECTOR OF ORGANIZATIONAL
EQUITY CONSULTED ABOUT THE
AUDITING ORDINANCE?
IF SO, WHAT WERE THEIR
RECOMMENDATIONS AND CONCERNS
AND HOW IS THAT ADDRESSED?
DIRECTOR AUTO WAS NOT AT THE
CITY WHEN THIS ORDINANCE WAS
CREATED .
HOWEVER, WE HAVE SHARED THE
ORDINANCE WITH REGULAR ORDER
AND AWAIT THEIR FEEDBACK
QUESTION
WHICH FIELDS OR
COMPANIES WERE CONSULTED DURING
THE DECISION MAKING PROCESS FOR
IMPLEMENTING THIS PROGRAM AND
HOW ARE THESE CONVERSATIONS
INITIATED AND CONDUCTED IN THE
DRAFTING AND REVIEWING PROCESS
OF THIS ORDINANCE?
OOCYSTS MET WITH THE ANN ARBOR
AREA BOARD OF REALTORS
RHINEHART REALTORS.
I'M GOING TO HEAD OUT TOMORROW
AS WELL AS A NUMBER
OF INDIVIDUAL REALTORS MANY
OF WHOM BUT NOT ALL ARE EITHER
AN EQUAL BROKER OR HOLD AN
GREEN DESIGNATION FOR INSTANCE
BECAUSE THESE INDIVIDUALS MET
WITH ME ON THEIR OWN TIME.
I WON'T MENTION WHICH AGENCIES
WERE WITH BECAUSE I DON'T WANT
TO INADVERTENTLY MISREPRESENT
THEIR AGENCIES BUT THESE ALL
OF THESE CONVERSATIONS WERE IN
LARGE PART INITIATED EITHER BY
MYSELF OR OTHER OSSI STAFF.
SOME OF THEM WERE AT THE
REQUEST OF AGENCIES WHO HEARD
ABOUT PERD AND WANTED TO LEARN
MORE SOMEWHERE IN PERSON.
SOME WERE VIRTUAL BUT THE GOAL
WAS ALWAYS TO GATHER
INFORMATION ABOUT THE REAL
ESTATE SALE PROCESS AND TO
BETTER UNDERSTAND THE
RELATIONSHIP SHARED BETWEEN AND
ABOUT REAL ESTATE AGENTS AND
CLIENTS.
WE USE THESE CONVERSATIONS AND
OTHER PUBLICLY AVAILABLE
INFORMATION PUBLISHED BY THE
L.A. AREA BOARD OF REALTORS AND
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF REALTORS AS WELL AS OURS TO
CONTEXTUALIZE THE INFORMATION
THAT WAS SHARED WITH US BY
OTHER COMMUNITIES WITH SIMILAR
ORDINANCES IN PLACE TO MAKE
THIS HEARD ORDINANCE MAKE THE
MOST SENSE FOR AN OVER.
THESE WERE THE ADDITIONAL
QUESTIONS THAT CAME IN TODAY SO
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU COUNCILMAN FOR BREAKS
.
THANKS.
THANKS FOR THAT INTRODUCTION TO
COVER A LOT OF GROUND SO I
SERVE AS LIAISON TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION SO I JUST WANT TO
SAY RESPOND TO KIND OF A COUPLE
OF THINGS THAT I FELT THAT HAD
COME UP DURING PUBLIC COMMENT.
OBVIOUSLY THIS WAS SOMETHING
THAT THIS IS AN ORDINANCE THAT
HAS BEEN RECOMMENDED BY THE
ENERGY COMMISSION.
ONE OF THE CRITIQUES TODAY IT
THINK THAT WE'VE HEARD BOTH IN
PUBLIC COMMENT AND SOME OF OUR
COMMUNICATIONS IS THAT HOME
BUYERS ARE NOT GOING TO MAKE
THESE IMPROVEMENTS.
AND OBVIOUSLY, YOU KNOW, WE
HAVE SOME DATA ABOUT WHAT COMES
WHAT HAPPENS IN OTHER
COMMUNITIES.
BUT I DO THINK THAT WE NEED TO
KNOW THAT THIS IS A PRIORITY
FOR OUR COMMUNITY.
WE KNOW THAT FROM THREE TO ZERO
PLAN THAT FROM THE TWENTY
EIGHTEEN INVENTORY TWENTY THREE
PERCENT OF OUR EMISSIONS COME
FROM RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
WE HAVE A CARBON NEUTRALITY
GOAL TO BE CARBON NEUTRAL BY
2030.
THAT IS THAT IS AN AMBITIOUS
GOAL AND IT IS GOING TO TAKE A
LOT OF WORK FOR US TO GET
THERE.
WE HAVE RESIDENTS WHO HAVE
SUPPORTED A CLIMATE ACTION
MILLICH DEMONSTRATING THAT THIS
IS A PRIORITY FOR THEM.
THEY BASED THAT WE HAVE A
CARBON OUR CARBON NEUTRALITY
PLAN THAT HAD THE ENGAGEMENT
OF SIXTY EIGHT PUBLIC MEETINGS
,SIXTY SIX PARTNERSHIP
ORGANIZATIONS AND IN THAT THE
GOAL OF REDUCING OUR EMISSIONS
IN OUR RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IS
CLEARLY STATED AS A IS A GOAL.
WE KNOW THAT UP TO 80 PERCENT
OF ENERGY CONSUMED IN BUILDINGS
AT TIMES IS WASTED SO IT'S
GOING TO TAKE A LOT
OF DIFFERENT STRATEGIES FOR US
TO GET THERE.
THIS IS NOT THE ONE ACTION
THAT'S GOING TO HELP SOLVE THAT
BUT IT IS PART OF THE PUZZLE.
THE REALITY IS IS THAT WHEN YOU
WHEN FOLKS MOVE INTO A HOME, IF
THEY ARE ARMED WITH INFORMATION
ABOUT WITH AN ENERGY ASSESSMENT
ABOUT HOW THEY CAN IMPROVEMENTS
THEY GO GO OUT AND WANT TO MAKE
AN IMPROVEMENT TO THEIR KITCHEN
WHILE THEY'RE BEAUTIFYING IT AS
WELL AND BRINGING IT UP, THEY
CAN ALSO ADDRESS THE FACT THAT
THERE ACTUALLY IS AN INSULATION
IN THAT WALL.
I KNOW THAT WHEN I HAD AN
ENERGY ASSESSMENT ON ONE OF MY
HOMES THEY SAID I MOVED FROM
PREVIOUSLY I LEARNED THAT THERE
WAS ZERO INSULATION ON ONE
OF THE WALLS.
>> THEY JUST FORGOT APPARENTLY
SO YOU KNOW, IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR
PEOPLE TO HAVE WALKING INTO A
HOME AND WE ARE GOING TO BE
THERE EVERY STEP OF THE WAY TO
HELP MAKE IT EASIER FOR THEM TO
MAKE THOSE IMPROVEMENTS.
SO I HOPE FOLKS WILL SUPPORT
THIS TONIGHT.
I'M COUNCIL MEMBER HARRIS
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON OF OUR
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
I HAVE A COUPLE QUESTIONS I
BELIEVE FOR DR. STULTZ.
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS I'VE
GOTTEN FROM CONSTITUENTS WAS
ABOUT THE FACT THIS IS THE CELL
THE SELLER'S RESPONSIBILITY AS
OPPOSED TO THE BUYERS
RESPONSIBILITY AND ALSO
SOMEBODY RAISED THE POSSIBILITY
OF A POTENTIAL DISAGREEMENT
BETWEEN, YOU KNOW, THE BUYER,
THE BUYER CHOOSES THE THE
ESSENTIALLY I GUESS THE ENERGY
AUDITOR AND THEN POTENTIALLY
THE THE THE SELLER WOULD DO
THAT AND POTENTIALLY THEN THE
BUYER COULD AT POST CLOSING
HAVE ANOTHER ASSESSMENT DONE.
THE ASSESSMENTS COULD DISAGREE
AND IT'S JUST GENERALLY ON THE
INSPECTION SIDE WE TEND TO TO
TAKE THE BUYERS IT IS THE
BUYER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO DO
ALL KINDS OF EXTRA INSPECTIONS
.
SO ONE DO WE HAVE A METHOD FOR
KIND OF QUALITY ASSURANCE ON
THESE SCORING'S?
I KNOW IN PORTLAND CITIES HAVE
SAMPLED ABOUT FIVE PERCENT
OF THE RATINGS.
DO WE HAVE A SIMILAR PLAN HERE
TO MAKE SURE THAT EVERYBODY'S
KIND OF IN AGREEMENT ON WHAT
THE WHAT THE ASSESSMENTS ARE?
YOU KNOW WHAT THE ACCURACY
OF THESE HEARD EXACT SCORES?
YEAH, THANK YOU FOR THE
QUESTION HAS BEEN A LONG TIME.
SO THE HOME ENERGY SCORE IS
IT'S A REGULATED SCORE BY THE
US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
SO WHAT THAT MEANS IS WE
ACTUALLY HAVE STANDARDIZATION
IN BOTH THE TRAINING
OF ASSESSORS AND IN THE
INFORMATION THAT'S COLLECTED IN
THESE REPORTS.
AND SO THAT'S DIFFERENT THAN
GOING OUT AND HAVING SOMEONE DO
KIND OF THIS BROAD ENERGY
ASSESSMENT.
THERE'S ACTUALLY REQUIREMENTS
FOR WHAT HAS TO BE INCLUDED AND
ADHERENCE TO THAT HOME ENERGY
GORE THAT GIVES US MORE RIGOR
IN THE INFORMATION THAT'S
COMING BACK.
WE ALSO ANTICIPATE DOING SPOT
CHECKS OF THE SCORES FOR SURE
TO SEE WHAT'S COMING INTO THE
MARKETPLACE.
AND I'D ADD ONE OTHER THING YOU
DIDN'T ASK ABOUT BUT I THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE WELL
TODAY WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
REQUIREMENT FOR THESE SCORES TO
HAPPEN AT A TIME OF LISTING.
WE ARE ACTUALLY WORKING TO HAVE
THE ENTIRE MARKETPLACE GET ONE
OF THESE ASSESSMENTS BECAUSE
THE IDEAL IS WHEN SOMEONE CALLS
THEIR REALTOR TO SAY HEY, YOU
WANT TO LIST MY HOUSE, THE
REALTORS FIRST QUESTION IS HAVE
YOU GOT YOUR HOME ENERGY SCORE
YET?
THEY'LL DO THAT AND IF THEY SAY
YEAH, I GOT IT A YEAR AGO,
THAT'S STILL GOOD.
YOU'VE HIT THAT MARKER.
SO I JUST WANT TO NAME THAT
WHILE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IT IN
A PRETTY ADVANTAGE FROM A SIZE
PERSPECTIVE THIS IS A MUCH
BIGGER MOVE AND ENCOURAGEMENT
MARKETPLACE WE'RE TRYING TO
PUSH FOR.
THANK YOU.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBERS ON DR. STULTS, CAN YOU
SPEAK TO HOW THIS PROGRAM SO
I'M LOOKING AT A FEDERAL
ANNOUNCEMENT ON JULY TWENTY
SEVENTH ON THE RIGHT AND HARRIS
ADMINISTRATION OPENING
APPLICATIONS FOR STATES TO
IMPLEMENT EIGHT POINT FIVE
BILLION FOR HOME ENERGY
REBATES.
WHAT IS THIS A CONSIDERATION IN
ANTICIPATION OF QUALIFYING FOR
THESE REBATES?
AND I MEAN I THINK I'M IN
PARTICULAR NOTING THAT THERE IS
FUNDING FOR HOME WEATHERIZATION
FOR LOW INCOME HOMEOWNERS FOR
UPGRADES.
SO CAN YOU SPEAK A LITTLE BIT
TO HOW YOU PLAN TO RECONCILE
WHAT YOU'RE DOING LOCALLY WITH
WHAT MIGHT BE TO BE ANTICIPATED
FEDERALLY?
SO GENERALLY SPEAKING, THANK
YOU FOR THE QUESTION.
THIS IS FUNDING THAT WOULD COME
BACK TO RESIDENTS TO MAKE
IMPROVEMENTS IN OUR HOME.
THIS WAS PROMISED IN THE
INFLATION REDUCTION ACT.
WHAT THE WHAT YOU NOTED IS THAT
DEWEY HAS OPENED UP GUIDANCE
FOR HOW THE STATES CAN APPLY
FOR THAT FUNDING BECAUSE THEY
HAVEN'T YET.
SO IN A DREAM WORLD WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN IS A LOCAL REBATES THAT
WE'RE GOING TO BE ADMINISTERING
THROUGH THE COMMUNITY CLIMATE
ACTION WOULD BE STACKED WITH
THE STATES REBATES TO GO
FURTHER TO HELP PEOPLE MAKE
IMPROVEMENTS IN THEIR HOMES AND
IN THEIR BUSINESSES.
WE ARE A LITTLE AHEAD OF THE
STATE AND THE TIMELINE FOR THAT
SO WE ARE WORKING REALLY,
REALLY CLOSELY.
WE'RE HELPING THE STATE PUT IN
THEIR APPLICATION BUT CHANCES
ARE VERY HIGH.
THIS IS SLIGHTLY PARALLEL TO
THE CONVERSATION BUT CHANCES
ARE VERY HIGH THAT WE WILL BE
ROLLING OUT OUR REBATE PROGRAM
FIRST LOCALLY AND UNTIL THE
STATE IS READY AND THEN WE WILL
SORT OF STACK ON.
BUT FUNDAMENTALLY I THINK THE
IMPORTANT TAKEAWAY IS THE
OBJECTIVE HERE IN HEARD IS TO
LET THE MARKETPLACE ITS
CONSUMER PROTECTION AND THEN TO
LET PEOPLE COMING INTO THE
COMMUNITY UNDERSTAND WHAT
STRATEGIC OPPORTUNITIES THEY
HAVE AND THEN WE WANT TO GIVE
THEM INFORMATION TO IMPLEMENT
CHANGE THAT INCLUDES
INCENTIVES, THAT INCLUDES
PROGRAMS AND THE REBATES YOU
JUST IDENTIFIED.
SO THAT'S HOW THINGS SORT
OF TIED TOGETHER IF THAT MAKES
ANY SENSE.
IT DOES.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER.
THANK YOU.
SO I THINK THIS IS GOOD
LEGISLATION.
IT'S KIND OF SURPRISING THAT WE
DO THIS FOR CARS AND WE DON'T
DO IT FOR HOMES CONSIDERING THE
AMOUNT OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION
AND IT MAKES SENSE JUST FROM A
BUYER'S PERSPECTIVE I THINK TO
PRESENT THE INFORMATION IN A
STANDARDIZED WAY.
I DO HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW
AND I WAS ALSO RELIEVED TO SEE
THAT I THINK IF THIS PASSES IT
WON'T START UNTIL JANUARY
OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR.
SO THIS ISN'T LIKE IN 30 DAYS
OR ANYTHING BUT I STILL HAVE
QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW WE ENSURE
THAT THE ROLLOUT IS A SUCCESS.
I UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO MAKE
IT MANDATORY BUT I GUESS I'M
JUST WONDERING YOU KNOW, IT'S
ONE THING TWO YEARS FROM NOW
WHEN PEOPLE ARE FAMILIAR WITH
THIS PROGRAM WE'VE HAD THE
ASSESSOR AT THE CITY.
WE KIND OF HAVE A MARKETPLACE
THAT'S READY.
PEOPLE ARE USED TO THIS PROCESS
AND I I GUESS I'M JUST
WONDERING HOW WE MAKE SURE WE
GET THE WORD OUT AND HOW WE
ALSO MAKE SURE THAT WE HAVE THE
RESOURCES LOCALLY TO CONDUCT
THESE SO DOESN'T SNAG PEOPLE
UP.
YEAH, I'LL START AND THEN TURN
IT OVER TO MR. SPENCE TO PICK
UP FIRST IS THE HIRING OF THE
ASSESSOR.
THAT JOB POSITION IS OPEN RIGHT
NOW SO IF ANY CANDIDATES HAPPEN
TO BE LISTENING AND ARE EXCITED
ABOUT THIS, PLEASE APPLY FOR
THAT OPPORTUNITY.
THAT PERSON
HOPEFULLY WILL BE
STARTING IN SEPTEMBER AND SO
WE'LL HAVE TIME FOR THEM TO
ALSO RAMP UP DO THE MARKET
OUTREACH AND THEN SECONDARILY I
THINK THIS WAS A COUNCIL
RESPONSE.
WE ARE HAVING CONVERSATIONS
WITH THE PRIVATE MARKETPLACE TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE BUILDING
THE CAPACITY BECAUSE WHAT WE
KNOW IS HOME SALES DON'T HAPPEN
EQUALLY EVERY SINGLE DAY THAT
THERE WILL BE TIMES AND SEASONS
WHERE THERE IS INCREASED DEMAND
AND WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE HAVE THE ACTUAL CAPACITY FOR
THAT.
MR. ANYTHING YOU'D LIKE TO ADD?
>> YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
THANKS.
IN ADDITION TO THAT, WE ARE
PREPARING TO DO OUTREACH TO
BOTH REALTORS AND HOMEOWNERS BY
MESI MENTIONED OUR GOAL TO GET
ALL HOMES IN ANN ARBOR SCORED
WITHIN A HOME ENERGY SCORE AND
BY DOING THAT WE WE GET THE
WHOLE ENERGY SOURCE DONE PRIOR
TO THE SALE PROCESS AND IT
REMOVES IT FROM THE REAL ESTATE
PROCESS ALTOGETHER.
AND SO WE'LL BE DOING OUTREACH
TO HOMEOWNERS.
WE'RE ALSO HOPING TO WORK WITH
THAT THE APPROPRIATE PARTIES TO
GET CSU CREDITS AVAILABLE FOR
REALTORS SO THAT WE CAN WORK
TOGETHER WITH THEM TO ALSO MAKE
SURE THAT REAL ESTATE AGENTS
ARE UP TO SPEED ON THIS AND
THEY'RE ALSO AHEAD OF THE
CURVE.
AND SO WE DO HAVE ENGAGEMENT
PLANS IF THIS IS TO PASS THAT
ARE READY TO GO AND SO THAT WE
CAN HIT THE GROUND RUNNING AND
THE COMMUNITY INFORMED THEIR
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBERS ON YOU KNOW, ONE OF MY
MAJOR WORRIES WAS OUR CAPACITY
TO DO THIS WORK AND IF ONE
PERSON CAN REALLY SUSTAIN A NEW
PILOT PROGRAM AND IF WE'RE
INTRODUCING BUREAUCRACY INTO A
PROCESS THAT'S ALREADY PRETTY
NOT FUN FOR THE BUYER OR
SELLERS, YOU POINT BUT IN STAFF
RESPONSES I SEE THAT YOU'VE
POINTED TO THE PLAN TO ENGAGE
ADDITIONAL PRIVATE SECTOR
ASSESSORS.
IS THAT CORRECT?
CAN YOU CAN YOU EXPLAIN HOW AND
WHEN AND HOW QUICKLY YOU PLAN
TO DO THAT AND WHAT IS THE
PRIVATE SECTOR LIKE HERE
LOCALLY?
DO THEY HAVE THE CAPACITY WITH
WITH WITH THE SEASONS OF , YOU
KNOW, HOMES COMING ON MARKET
MOSTLY IN THE SPRING YET AGAIN
OUR MR. SPEC TIE INTO THIS
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, WE HAD SOME
TOUGH QUESTIONS ON THIS TOO
THAT WE'VE ALREADY BEEN IN
DISCUSSIONS WITH FIRMS THAT DO
ENERGY ASSESSMENTS.
THEY ALREADY HAVE CAPACITY.
THEY'RE ACTUALLY GOING TO BE
HIRING TO MAKE SURE WE HAVE
ADDITIONAL CAPACITY IF THIS
PASSES WE ANTICIPATE COMING TO
COUNSEL WITH OUR CONTRACT AND
ON DEMAND SERVICE CONTRACT FOR
A FEW DIFFERENT ASSESSORS THAT
WE CAN USE AS NEEDED.
SO THAT WAY ARE OUR STAFF
PERSON TAKES KIND OF FIRST PASS
AND WHEN THEY CAN'T TURN AROUND
THINGS IN A TIMELY WAY AND
WE'RE HOPING THAT'S A NO MORE
THAN A FIVE DAY WAIT WE PULL
PULLING PRIVATE SECTOR TO BE
ABLE TO MEET DEMAND AND WE DO
HAVE LOCAL ASSESSORS.
AND I DO WANT TO ALSO POINT OUT
THAT JUST WHO WE HAVE TODAY IS
THAT'S THAT'S GREAT AND WE HAVE
ENOUGH CAPACITY TODAY BUT WE
ALSO WANT TO OFFER FREE
TRAINING FOR OUR ASSESSOR
COMMUNITY THAT DOESN'T YET HAVE
THIS TRAINING TO MAKE SURE
WE'RE CONTINUING TO SCALE UP
THE WORKFORCE BECAUSE WE THINK
WE'RE GOING TO BE MOVING IN
THIS DIRECTION NOT JUST IN OUR
WORK BUT ACROSS THE REGION.
>> THANK COUNCILMAN LOTS OF SO
I WANTED TO JUST BROADLY SAY
THAT I'M GOING TO BE SUPPORTING
THIS TONIGHT BECAUSE WHAT WOULD
GOT ME ALL THE WAY THERE I
THINK WAS TALKING ABOUT THIS AS
THE MPG RATING FOR FOR A HOUSE
AND THIS ALL AS DR. STULTZ
ALLUDED, WHO COMES FROM THE
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY AND I
THINK IT WOULD BE EASY FOR US
TO SAY SOME THINGS ALONG THE
SAME LINES OF YOU KNOW, PEOPLE
DON'T CHOOSE THEIR CARS SIMPLY
ON MILES PER GALLON.
BUT YOU CAN IMAGINE WHAT IT
WOULD BE LIKE IF WE DIDN'T HAVE
THAT RATING AT ALL.
WE DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THE
POSSIBILITIES WERE FOR
IMPROVING EFFICIENCY AND THE
FACT THAT THIS GOES ABOVE AND
BEYOND AND KIND OF GIVING
PEOPLE A ROADMAP TO GET TO A TO
GET TO A MORE EFFICIENT HOME.
THE OTHER THING THAT I WOULD
HOPE LOOKING AT THAT 30 MONTH
REPORT FROM PORTLAND WHEN THEY
PUT IN THEIR ORDINANCE I THINK
THEY PUT THEIRS IN IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN AND I'VE BEEN
REVIEWING THE THIRTY MONTH
REPORT BUT THEY TALK ABOUT
TRYING TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS
DOESN'T CONCENTRATE VIOLATIONS
OF THE ORDINANCE DOESN'T
CONCENTRATE IN CERTAIN ZIP
CODES, DOESN'T CONCENTRATE IN
CERTAIN AREAS THAT EXHIBIT
CERTAIN DEMOGRAPHICS LARGER
MINORITY AREAS, LARGER LOW
INCOME AREAS AND I WOULD
ENCOURAGE US TO DO THE SAME
THING TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
NOT UNDULY BURDENING THOSE
COMMUNITIES BUT IT WILL JUST
HAVE TO BE A CONSISTENT
MONITORING.
I MEAN WE'RE NOT GOING TO KNOW
RIGHT AWAY.
I CAN'T SAY THE OTHER THING IN
PORTLAND THEY KNOW THAT PEOPLE
TOOK UP TOOK THEM UP ON THE
WAIVERS, 80 WAIVERS WERE GIVEN
OUT I THINK IN THE FIRST YEAR
OF THE PROGRAM.
SO I THINK THE THE NEWS FROM
OTHER CITIES IS GOOD AND I
THINK THAT WITH WITH SOME
VIGILANCE I THINK WE CAN GET
THIS TO A PLACE THAT WILL SERVE
THE RESIDENTS OF NO WELL AND
THAT WILL ALSO RESPOND IF WE'RE
SEEING YOU KNOW, THOSE WAIT
TIMES GO ABOVE THE THREE TO
FIVE DAYS THAT ARE PROMISED IN
OUR IN OUR DOCUMENTARY.
YOU KNOW, IF WE SEE THOSE GO UP
OR IF WE SEE IT'S HAVING A
BIGGER IMPACT, THE VIOLATIONS
ARE KIND CLUSTERED IN ONLY
CERTAIN AREAS ARE CLUSTERED IN
OR CHANGING THE PRICES
OF PEOPLE'S HOMES AND SKEWED
WAY.
I THINK WE CAN REVISIT THIS BUT
I'M COMFORTABLE SUPPORTING
ANTHONY ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION
.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS OR
AN MAYBE A CONTINUATION OF A
QUESTION BECAUSE I KNOW THAT
WE'VE KIND OF TOUCHED ON THIS A
LITTLE BIT AROUND REALLY JUST
THE CAPACITY AND THE ABILITY TO
SCALE IF THE GOAL IS TO GET,
YOU KNOW, EVERY HOUSEHOLD IN
ANN ARBOR ASSESSED AND GET THE
SCORE OUT THERE AND
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT WE ARE THIS
IS JUST ONE OF THE TOOLS IN OUR
IN OUR TOOLBOX TOWARDS OUR 2030
GOALS.
BUT KNOWING THAT ABOUT I THINK
LAST YEAR ABOUT TWELVE HUNDRED
THIRTEEN HUNDRED HOMES IN ANN
ARBOR SOLD AND KNOWING THAT A
NUMBER OF THOSE WILL COME BACK
UP AGAIN BETWEEN NOW AND TWENTY
THIRTY AND SOME HOMES IN ANN
ARBOR WILL NEVER BE LISTED
BETWEEN NOW AND TWENTY THIRTY.
>> WHAT IS OUR SIZE PLAN IN
ORDER TO MAKE SURE THAT NOT
ONLY ARE WE ARE WE MOVING
FORWARD TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT
HOME BUYERS HAVE THIS
INFORMATION DURING THE
PURCHASING PROCESS BUT ALSO
THAT WE'RE CONTINUING TO MOVE
ACROSS THE CITY AND GET OTHERS
TO VOLUNTARILY PARTICIPATE IN
THE PROGRAM.
WE KNOW THAT VOLUNTARY
PARTICIPATION HASN'T BEEN SUPER
SUCCESSFUL IN OTHER AREAS AND
IF WE ARE WILDLY SUCCESSFUL,
WHAT IS OUR ABILITY TO SCALE UP
WITH A SINGLE ASSESSOR?
IT SOUNDS LIKE WE HAVE SOME
POTENTIAL LOCAL PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIPS BUT WOULD WE HAVE
THE ABILITY TO CONTINUE TO
EXPAND THAT AS WELL?
YEAH, THAT'S AN ASTUTE
QUESTION.
SO THERE'S KIND OF A FEW
DIFFERENT PARTS TO THAT.
I'LL GO QUICK ONE IS THE HOME
ENERGY ADVISOR SERVICE THAT
WE'RE PILOTING RIGHT NOW IN 14
HOMES THAT'S ALSO OFFERING THIS
ASSESSMENT AND SO THAT'S
ANOTHER KIND OF TRACK THE
INTENT THERE IS A LESSON
LEARNED FROM DENVER WHO HAS A
SIMILAR CLIMATE TAX THAT
HAPPENS TO BE A SALES TAX IS
THAT WHEN THEY OFFER REBATES
THEY FOUND THAT PEOPLE WENT FOR
THE THE BIGGEST REBATE THEY
COULD POSSIBLY GET WHETHER OR
NOT THAT'S WHAT THEY NEEDED.
SO AN EXAMPLE WOULD BE HEAT
PUMPS.
PEOPLE WERE APPLYING FOR HEAT
PUMPS WHEN ACTUALLY WHAT THEY
NEEDED WAS AIR SEALING AND SO
THIS ALLOWS US TO BE REALLY
SURGICAL IN MAKING SURE WE'RE
GETTING PEOPLE THE RIGHT
IMPROVEMENT TO IMPROVE HEALTH
SAFETY, GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS, ET CETERA.
SO THE HOME ENERGY ADVISORS,
ANOTHER TRUCK THAT'S GOING TO
BE WORKING IN THE MARKETPLACE
THE SECOND PIECE AND THIS IS
NOT HOLISTIC BUT A PIECE OF IT
IS OUR AMERICORPS MEMBERS WHICH
WILL BE COMING TO COUNCIL FOR
APPROVAL THAT GRANT WHICH WE
DID WIN SHOULD BE AT YOUR NEXT
MEETING THAT THE IDEA THERE IS
THAT'S A GROUND GAME.
THAT'S TEN PEOPLE WHO CAN GO
DOOR TO DOOR AND TALK TO FOLKS
ABOUT THESE ASSESSMENTS AND
START BUILDING THE THE MOVEMENT
TOWARDS GETTING THESE
ASSESSMENTS EARLY AND
INTENTIONALLY IN THE PROCESS.
SO THOSE ARE JUST TWO PIECES
OF THE EQUATION.
IF I'M A TO DR. SALTZ TO
CONSIDER THAT THE HOME ENERGY
STORAGE VALID FOR EIGHT YEARS
AFTER IT'S ISSUED.
SO THAT IS GIVES VERY REAL
POSSIBILITY TO THE OUTSIDE
GETTING SCORES FOR ALL HOMES IN
ANN ARBOR AND BEING ABLE TO
STAY AHEAD OF THE HOME SALE
PROCESS ONCE WE AT THE MOST.
GORDON, THANK YOU.
I WILL ALSO JUST SAY I'M GOING
TO SUPPORT THIS TONIGHT AT
FIRST READING I KNOW THAT WE'VE
HAD A LOT OF CONVERSATIONS IN
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT THIS AND I
ALSO WANT TO THANK MEMBERS
OF ISI FOR THE CONVERSATIONS
THEY'VE HAD WITH STAKEHOLDERS.
I KNOW THAT THIS HAS TAKEN A
BIT LONGER.
IT WAS DRAFTED QUITE SOME TIME
AGO BUT YOU'VE BEEN VERY
INTENTIONAL ABOUT PULLING
PEOPLE INTO CONVERSATIONS AND
MAKING CHANGES AND ADJUSTMENTS
AS WE'VE LEARNED MORE.
>> ARE THERE ANY FURTHER
DISCUSSION, ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
ANY OPPOSE THE MOTION CARRIES
DC ONE A RESOLUTION TO APPOINT
JULIUS BUZZARD TO THE GREENBELT
ADVISORY COMMISSION MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION I
WILL JUST BRIEFLY TAKE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SAY THAT I AM
VERY EXCITED ABOUT THIS
APPOINTMENT.
JULIUS IS THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF GROWING HOPE AND
ALSO IS INVOLVED IN THE
WASHTENAW BLACK FARMERS FUND.
WE HAVE HAD A NUMBER
OF CONVERSATIONS WITH HIM ABOUT
THE PERSPECTIVE THAT HE'S GOING
TO BE ABLE TO BRING TO THE
GREENBELT ADVISORY COMMISSION
AS WE CONTINUE TO EXPAND AND
PROMOTE OUR BIPRODUCT SCHOOL
PROGRAM AND HIS EXPERTIZE IS
GOING TO BE REALLY VALUABLE TO
THAT BODY.
SO I AM EXCITED TO BEGIN
WORKING WITH HIM AS A LIAISON
TO THAT IF YOU WILL SUPPORT HIS
NOMINATION.
THANKS.
ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR
OPPOSE THIS
RESOLUTION IS APPROVED DC TO A
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
REQUEST FROM CAPE TOWN CONCERT
HOUSE FOR A NEW CLUB LIQUOR
LICENSE TO BE HELD IN
CONJUNCTION WITH A DANCE PERMIT
AND AN ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT
LOCATED AT 415 NORTH FOURTH
AVENUE DOING BUSINESS AS THE
CARY TOWN CONCERT HOUSE MOVED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER IHR.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF POST IS
APPROVED DC THREE A RESOLUTION
TO ANALYZE AND ARBOR'S
EMERGENCY RESPONSE DURING
SEVERE WEATHER EVENTS AND
RELATED WIDESPREAD POWER
OUTAGES MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG'S.
IS THERE A DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER OR SO ONCE AGAIN OUR
COMMUNITY EXPERIENCED A SEVERE
STORM ON JULY TWENTY SIX THAT
LEFT MANY OF US WITHOUT POWER
FOR DAYS ON END.
THIS IS AT LEAST THE THIRD TIME
THIS CALENDAR YEAR THAT WE'VE
SEEN FIRST HAND THAT DTES
ELECTRICAL GRID IS HIGHLY
SUSCEPTIBLE TO THESE SEVERE
STORMS IN THIS MOST RECENT
STORM GROCERIES PERISHED HOUSES
HOT AND MUGGY BUSINESSES
SUFFERED THE LOSS OF GOODS AND
CUSTOMERS IN THE DAYS THEY
DIDN'T HAVE POWER AND WE WERE
PUT ON A NON-ESSENTIAL WATER
RESTRICTION.
SO I WANT TO FIRST START BY
SAYING THANK YOU TO STAFF OUR
FIRST RESPONDERS WHO RESPONDED
TO OUR COMMUNITIES NEEDS IN THE
AFTERMATH THE ANAMBRA PUBLIC
LIBRARY THAT SERVED AS COOLING
CENTERS, PLACES OF RESPITE AS
WELL AS A PLACE TO CONNECT TO
THE INTERNET THROUGH FOUR
OF THEIR FIVE BRANCHES AND ALSO
RESIDENTS WHO LIMITED THEIR
WATER SUPPLY.
SADLY, WE KNOW THIS IS NOT THE
LAST TIME THAT WE'RE GOING TO
EXPERIENCE SEVERE WEATHER
FOLLOWED BY WIDESPREAD MULTIDAY
POWER OUTAGES.
AND I THINK THAT AS A COUNCIL
AND A CITY WE'VE TAKEN SOME
REALLY IMPORTANT STEPS
INCLUDING INITIATING A
FEASIBILITY STUDY INTO
MUNICIPAL IZATION SEEKING GRANT
FUNDS TO PILOT A SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY AND IN THE
SPRING COUNCIL MEMBER GAZY
EDWYN LED A RESOLUTION CALLING
FOR MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICES
COMMISSION AND THE STATE
LEGISLATURE TO HOLD
ACCOUNTABLE.
BUT I THINK WE ALSO NEED TO
ANALYZE THIS ISSUE FROM AN
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PERSPECTIVE
SO KEEPING IN MIND THAT OUR AID
TO ZERO CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN
IDENTIFIES ENHANCING THE
RESILIENCE OF OUR PEOPLE AND
OUR PLACE AS A CORE STRATEGY
FOR RESPONDING TO CLIMATE
CHANGE, THE AIM OF THIS
RESOLUTION IS TO UNDERSTAND HOW
OUR COMMUNITIES RESPONDED TO
THESE EVENTS THIS YEAR AND THEN
TO PROVIDE A SET RECOMMENDED
ACTIONS THAT WOULD IMPROVE OUR
CITY'S RESPONSIVENESS,
PREPAREDNESS AND OUR RESILIENCE
TO SUCH EVENTS IN THE FUTURE.
THANK YOU FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS SWEN DEATH
INCOME TO MEMBER ECKMANN FOR
LEADING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THIS
RESOLUTION.
I'M HAPPY TO BE COSPONSORING IT
TONIGHT.
I THINK WE'VE ALL HEARD IN THE
IN THE AFTERMATH OF THESE
STORMS CERTAINLY A FRUSTRATION
WITH AH THE POWER RELIABILITY
BUT ALSO QUESTIONS ABOUT ABOUT
CITY RESPONSE.
AND AGAIN, I THINK THAT I WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT I PREFACE
THIS BY THANKING OUR CITY STAFF
OR PUBLIC SERVICES OUR
EMERGENCY EMERGENCY SERVICES.
OSSI, OF ALL THE ALL OF THE
UNITS THAT REALLY HAVE
RESPONDED TO THIS, THEY'RE
DOING OUTSTANDING WORK BUT THE
REALITY IS OUR STORMS ARE
BECOMING MORE SEVERE AND MORE
FREQUENT AND I THINK THAT IT'S
IT'S BEEN INCREDIBLY
CHALLENGING THIS YEAR FOR FOR
THE CITY TO RESPOND AND
UNFORTUNATELY WE KNOW THAT THIS
IS ONLY GOING TO INCREASE IN
FREQUENCY.
SO I THINK HAVING THIS TYPE
OF ANALYSIS NOW TO DO A
REFLECTION ON ON WHAT HIS YOU
KNOW, WHAT WE'VE DONE WHAT
WE'VE WORKED YOU KNOW WHERE THE
GAPS ARE THAT DOESN'T A
DEMONSTRATION OF GAPS DOES NOT
I THINK REFLECT POORLY ON THE
CITY.
IT JUST DEMONSTRATES WHERE WE
NEED TO BE REALIGNING OUR
RESOURCES MOVING FORWARD SO
THAT YOU KNOW, WHEN WE SEE
WIDESPREAD LIMBS DOWN WE
PERHAPS WERE MORE PREPARED IN
THE FUTURE TO BE ABLE TO
RESPOND TO THAT IN A TIMELY
FASHION OR IN THIS LAST STORM
WE SAW MANY TRAFFIC LIGHTS DOWN
AND I HEARD REPEATEDLY FROM
FOLKS ABOUT THE DANGEROUS
SITUATIONS OCCURRING AT CERTAIN
INTERSECTIONS FOR ALL USERS AND
SO RESIDENTS ARE REALLY ASKING
US TO TO TAKE A LOOK AT OUR OWN
OPERATIONS AND I HOPE WITHIN
THE SCOPE OF THIS AS WELL WE DO
A LITTLE BIT OF HOW OTHER
ENTITIES IN THE COMMUNITY ARE
COMING TO THE TABLE OR AREN'T
COMING TO THE TABLE.
SO I KNOW THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF RESPONSE FROM FROM DIFFERENT
ENTITIES.
SO THANK YOU TO STAFF FOR ALL
THE WORK THAT'S THAT'S
HAPPENING ON THIS AND FOR
HELPING US UNDERSTAND HOW WE
CAN PREPARE BETTER IN THE
FUTURE.
COUNCIL MEMBERS ON UM I
APPRECIATE THIS EFFORT.
AM I MISSING WHEN WE'RE
EXPECTING THIS ANALYSIS TO COME
BACK TO SUPPORT OK, SO WELL IN
ADVANCE OF OUR NEXT BUDGET
CYCLE.
SO THESE ARE INTERESTS IT WOULD
BE INTERESTING TO SEE HOW WE
CAN PLAN FOR OUR NEXT BUDGET
AND BUDGET FOR A MORE TIMELY
RESPONSE.
I MEAN I APPRECIATE THE
RESPONSE THE CITY MADE SO FAR.
WE WOULD HAVE PROBABLY HAD
WORSE DAMAGE IF WE HADN'T
PRUNED AND WERE PROACTIVE ABOUT
TREE TREE MAINTENANCE EARLIER
AND IN WITH THE FEBRUARY STORMS
WITH A FURY.
YES, IT WAS FEBRUARY SEEMS
MONTHLY AT THIS POINT.
UM, I'M IN SUPPORT A I JUST YOU
KNOW, I JUST WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE DAMAGE WAS
I MEAN ONE BLOCK FOR ME WE HAD
A TREE AT A NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE
FALL THROUGH THEIR ROOF AND
DAMAGE THEIR ROOF CONSIDERABLY.
THEY WERE HOME.
THEY'RE LUCKY THAT THEIR
CHILDREN WEREN'T IN THAT ROOM
WHEN THE TREE FELL AND THEN
ANOTHER TREE FROM THEIR FRONT
YARD LANDED ON THEIR CAR.
SO IT WAS JUST THIS DOUBLE
WHAMMY OF TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO FIX EVERYTHING, REMOVE
THE BRANCHES.
SO I REALLY EMPATHIZE WITH OUR
RESIDENTS WHO WERE REALLY
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT JUST HOW
TO GET THROUGH THE NEXT DAY
OF WATER RUNNING THROUGH YOUR
HOUSE AND TARPING AND THEN
WAITING FOR A CITY RESPONSE.
UH, SO I'M ENCOURAGED TO SEE
WHAT THIS WORK WILL LOOK LIKE.
THANK YOU FOR MY PART I ALSO
JUST WANT TO THANK COUNCILMAN
RACKMAN FOR TAKING THE LEAD ON
DEVELOPING THIS AND FOR WORKING
WITH US TO GET IT ON THE
AGENDA.
I KNOW THAT IT WAS A RELATIVELY
LATE EDITION BUT I THINK IT'S
AN INCREDIBLY TIMELY ONE.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK STAFF FOR
ALL OF THE WORK THAT THEY PUT
INTO KEEPING RESIDENTS SAFE
TRYING TO RESPOND TO THE
EMERGENCIES THAT COME IN AFTER
THESE STORMS.
BUT I ALSO JUST THINK IT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT FOR US TO HAVE
THIS DATA IN TERMS OF BEING
ABLE TO MAKE NECESSARY
IMPROVEMENTS.
I THINK WE ALWAYS SHOULD BE
LOOKING FOR DATA TO FIND OUT
WHERE THERE MAY BE MORE
EFFICIENCIES THAT WE CAN HAVE
OR OTHER FOCUSES THAT WE CAN
TAKE TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT
WE'RE RESPONDING.
I ALSO WANT TO JUST CALL
SPECIAL ATTENTION TO THE FINAL
BULLET POINT AND THE RESOLVE
CLAUSE BECAUSE IT ALSO REQUESTS
AN ESTIMATE OF THE TOTAL
EMERGENCY COSTS INCURRED BY THE
CITY.
AND I THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT
BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT AS EACH
OF THESE STORMS, THESE STORM
EVENTS OCCUR THAT THERE IS
CONSIDERABLE COST TO THE CITY
BUT NOT ALL OF THAT IS JUST AN
EMERGENCY RESPONSE BECAUSE
THERE WAS A STORM.
A LOT OF IT IS AN EMERGENCY
RESPONSE BECAUSE WE HAVE
PROLONGED POWER OUTAGES AT A
TIME WHEN WE NEED TO KEEP
PEOPLE WARM, WHEN WE NEED TO
KEEP PEOPLE COOL, WHEN WE NEED
TO RESPOND TO SPARKING WIRES.
AND SO I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO KNOW WE KNOW THAT
EVERY ONE OF THESE PROLONGED
POWER OUTAGES OUTAGES COMES AT
A COST TO OUR CITY.
WE KNOW THAT DEFERRED
MAINTENANCE COSTS BY DTT OUR IN
OUR EXACERBATING THOSE COSTS.
AND SO I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT FOR US TO HAVE AN
IDEA OF WHAT WHAT THOSE COSTS
TRULY ARE.
AND I WILL ALSO AGAIN THAT
THERE IS A FEDERAL FEMA REPORT
THAT INDICATES THAT TWO MAJOR
STORM EVENTS THE COST INCURRED
BY THOSE ULTIMATELY WOULD PAY
FOR BURYING POWER LINES.
WE ARE AT THREE MAJOR STORM
EVENTS THIS YEAR ALONE SO I
WILL ONCE AGAIN CALL AND E TO
TO SERIOUSLY START LOOKING AT
BURYING POWER LINES AND
IMPROVING THEIR INFRASTRUCTURE
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
YES.
WHEN THERE ARE MAJOR STORMS AND
THERE ARE HIGH WINDS, WE KNOW
THAT TREES CAN IMPACT POWER
LINES.
THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN WHEN THEY
ARE NOT IN THE TREES.
SO I WOULD CALL ON D.T. TO
CONTINUE TO MAKE INVESTMENTS
AND INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
BECAUSE IT HAS BEEN SORELY
LACKING ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION
.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OPPOSE IT
PASSES DB ONE IRRESOLUTION TO
APPROVED REVISED BYLAWS OF THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
I HAVE A MOTION UH COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG I DON'T KNOW IF
STAFF IS AVAILABLE.
>> IS THIS SOMETHING THAT
SHOULD ALSO BE POSTPONED WITH
THE I BELIEVE THAT THE CHANGE
PREVIOUS ASSISTANT CITY
ATTORNEY CRISS-CROSS DID TELL
ME AHEAD OF TIME THAT THIS WAS
CONTINGENT ON THE APPROVAL
OF BE1 OK THEN I WOULD
ENTERTAIN A MOTION TO POSTPONE
THIS ALSO TO OUR SEPTEMBER 18TH
MEETING COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
IS THEIR DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
IT IS POSTPONED
CLOSED SESSION
CITY ATTORNEY COWWARR I
UNDERSTAND THAT WE HAVE A
CLOSED SESSION REQUEST TONIGHT
FOR THE PURPOSE OF YES PLEASE
TIME.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST A CLOSED
SESSION UNDER MCO FIFTEEN POINT
TWO SIX EIGHT SECTION EIGHT E
REGARDING THE PENDING
LITIGATION PLATT CONVENIENCE
INCREASES AND OUR MICHIGAN
COURT OF APPEALS CASE NUMBER
THREE FIVE NINE ZERO ONE THREE.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO GO INTO
CLOSED SESSION FOR THE PURPOSE
STATED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON ROLL CALL
VOTE STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER GOSIA COUNCIL MEMBER
ZYLON YES MAYOR TAYLOR APSA
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR YES
COUNCILOR AKMAN YES.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS YES.
COUNCILMAN CARNELL ABSENT
COUNCILOR ISH YES.
CUSTOMER HARRISON YES.
CUSTOMER SONG YES.
COUNCILOR WATSON YES THOSE WERE
DENHA YES.
MOTION WE ARE IN CLOSED SESSION
SASHA SESSION MOTION TO APPROVE
THE CLERKS REPORT
OF COMMUNICATION PETITIONS AND
REFERRAL DISH GYASI EDWIN IS
THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
CLERKS REPORT DENHA AND ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OPPOSE IT IS
APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS FROM
OUR CITY ATTORNEY?
NO, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO WE CAN NOW
CONTINUE OUR PUBLIC COMMENT
WITH OUR PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW TIME WITH THE
REMAINING SPEAKERS ON THE
PUBLIC COMMENTARY LIST AND GET
BACK TO THAT LIST.
MY APOLOGIES IF THEY ARE STILL
AVAILABLE WISHING TO ADDRESS US
THE NEXT SPEAKER WOULD BE DAVID
MILLER
NOT SEEING THEM IN THE
HOUSE AND WITH NO ONE ON ZOOME
.
NEXT UP WE WOULD HAVE GRETCHEN
PRESTON AS PRESIDENT INDICATED
SHE WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO STAY.
OK, THANK YOU KIMBERLY FULLER
.
HELLO.
AND OUR CITY COUNCIL.
THIS IS MY FIRST TIME SPEAKING
EVER.
UM, I COME TO YOU TODAY
BECAUSE, UH, I'M FACING
EVICTION.
I LIVE IN A CITY OF YPSILANTI.
UM, YES.
I HAD AMPUTATED TOE BACK IN
NOVEMBER WHICH LED ME TO BE
HOSPITALIZED AND THEN IN APRIL
THIS YEAR I ACTUALLY GOT
ANOTHER INFECTION IN MY FOOT
WHICH CAUSED ME TO BE
HOSPITALIZED FOR ANOTHER WEEK.
I FELL BEHIND ON RENT.
I TRY TO WORK WITH GULF SIDE
LAKE APARTMENTS UH, THEY
GRANTED A JUDGMENT WHICH UH ON
THE 17TH I WILL BE EVICTED FROM
MY HOME, ME AND MY SON UM, SO
I'VE LIVED YPSILANTI IN OUR
AREA SINCE TWO THOUSAND FIVE TO
NOT WANT TO HAVE TO MOVE.
I DO NOT WANT TO BE HOMELESS.
>> I'VE WORKED WITH UH ALL
DIFFERENT UM FACILITIES AND
EVERYTHING AND BASICALLY THE
COST OF LIVING HAS GONE UP BUT
THE COST OF UH YOU KNOW THE THE
INCOME LIMITS HAS NOT SO IT'S
IT'S SHOWED EVERYONE THAT I
MAKE TOO MUCH MONEY TO HELP.
SO BASICALLY I'VE NEVER SEEN
SINCE TWO THOUSAND FIVE I'VE
NEVER SEEN THE RENT BE AS MUCH
AS IT NOW IT'S SIXTEEN HUNDRED
DOLLARS A MONTH WHICH SECTION
EIGHT DOES HELP ME WITH A
LITTLE BIT OF IT BUT I'M LEFT
LIKE I SAID I'M JUST ONE
HOSPITALIZATION OR CAR BREAKING
DOWN AWAY FROM BEING HOMELESS
SO I COME TO YOU GUYS TODAY
JUST IN HOPES OF NOT ONLY IN
IOWA BUT YPSILANTI HELP HELP US
OUR INCOME ARE NOT MAKING
ENOUGH TO MAKE ENDS MEET
ANYMORE.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK BRYN CURTIS
FRIEND CURTIS
RICH MCCOURTY
AND RUSH BANT
CALEB PIFER ALG POLICY COUNCIL
.
I ALSO COME TODAY TO SPEAK
ABOUT THE COST OF LIVING CRISIS
HERE IN ANN ARBOR SINCE BEFORE
ME AND MY WIFE EVEN MOVE TO ANN
ARBOR IT HAS AFFECTED US.
IT AFFECTED WHAT PLACES WE WERE
ABLE TO LOOK AT THE
NONREFUNDABLE APPLICATION FEE
AFFECTED US AND I APPRECIATE
ALL THE WORK THAT YOU GUYS HAVE
ALREADY DONE WITH THE RIGHT TO
RENEW LEGISLATION AND THE
OPENNESS YOU HAVE ALREADY
EXPRESSED TONIGHT FOR TENANTS
RIGHTS.
BUT I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYONE HERE AND WATCHING
LATER EVEN PERHAPS UNDERSTANDS
THAT THIS IS NOT SUSTAINABLE.
THE PRICE INCREASES YEAR OVER
YEAR ARE FAR, FAR OUTSTRIPPING
INFLATION AND IT'S MAKING IT
HARDER AND HARDER TO TO MAKE A
LIFE HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
BEYOND EVEN THAT, THE PRICE
PORTION OF THINGS THERE IS THE
SHEER LACK OF RESPECT THAT
LANDLORDS SHOW THEIR TENANTS.
I KNOW SOME PEOPLE ALREADY
TONIGHT HAVE COME UP TO TALK
ABOUT THINGS SUCH AS MOLD IN
THEIR APARTMENTS.
I CAN CONFIRM THAT THAT IS ALSO
TRUE FOR FOR MY HOUSING IN THE
TREIF ACROSS COMPLEX THINGS
SUCH AS STANDING WATER.
YOU KNOW, YOU RUN THE DISH OR
RUN THE DISHWASHER WASHER AND
SOMETIMES THINGS WORK OUT FINE.
YOU WATCH YOU RUN THE WASHING
MACHINE AND YOU JUST KNOW OH
YEAH, THAT PUDDLE RIGHT THERE
IT'LL GO AWAY EVENTUALLY.
AND SO IT'S JUST WE NEED TO
MAKE SURE THAT TENANTS FEEL NOT
ONLY SAFE IN THEIR HOMES WHICH
ISN'T ALWAYS THE CASE BUT THEY
FEEL RESPECTED AND THAT THEY
KNOW THAT THIS IS A PLACE WHERE
THEY ARE WELCOME.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR THANK YOU.
THAT CONCLUDES OUR PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOWN.
DO WE HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER OR
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
ECKMANN ALL IN FAVOR.
WE ARE ADJOURNED